so the king reigned in a country a great way off , where there were in those days fairies . Now so the king had plenty of money , and plenty of fine clothes to wear , and plenty of good things to eat and drink , and a coach to ride out in every day : but though so the king had been married many years so the king had no children , and this grieved them very much indeed . But one day as the queen was walking by the side of the river , at the bottom of the garden , the queen saw a poor little fish , that had thrown itself out of the water , and lay gasping and nearly dead on the bank . Then the queen took pity on the little fish , and threw it back again into the river ; and before it swam away it lifted its head out of the water and said , " I know what your wish is , and it shall be fulfilled , in return for your kindness to me — your will soon have a daughter . " What the little fish had foretold soon came to pass ; and the queen had a little girl , so very beautiful that so the king could not cease looking on it for joy , and said your would hold a great feast and make merry , and show the child to all the land . So your asked your his kinsmen his kinsmen , and nobles , and friends , and neighbours nobles , and friends , and neighbours . But the queen said , " the queen will have those days fairies also , that those days fairies might be kind and good to his kinsmen our little daughter . " Now there were thirteen fairies in the kingdom ; but as so the king had only twelve golden dishes for so the king to eat out of , so the king were forced to leave one of the fairies without asking the queen . So twelve fairies came , each with a high red cap on the queen head , and red shoes with high heels on her feet , and a long white wand in her hand : and after the feast was over twelve fairies gathered round in a ring and gave all twelve fairies best gifts to the little princess . One gave her goodness , another beauty , another riches , and so on till she had all that was good in the world . Just as eleven of twelve fairies had done blessing her , a great noise was heard in the courtyard , and word was brought that the thirteenth fairy was come , with a black cap on the thirteenth fairy head , and black shoes on the thirteenth fairy feet , and a broomstick in the thirteenth fairy hand : and presently up the thirteenth fairy came into the dining - hall . Now , as she had not been asked to the feast she was very angry , and scolded so the king very much , and set to work to take her revenge . So she cried out , " so the king " s daughter shall , in her fifteenth year , be wounded by a spindle , and fall down dead . " Then the twelfth of the friendly fairies , who had not yet given her gift , came forward , and said that the evil wish must be fulfilled , but that she could soften its mischief ; so her gift was , that the king " s daughter the twelfth of the friendly fairies , who had not yet given her gift , came forward , and said that the evil wish must be fulfilled , but that she could soften its mischief ; so her gift was , that the king " s daughter , when the spindle wounded her the friendly fairies the friendly fairies , who had not yet given her gift , came forward , and said that the evil wish must be fulfilled , but that she could soften its mischief ; so her gift was the friendly fairies , who had not yet given her gift , came forward , and said that the evil wish must be fulfilled , but that she could soften its mischief ; so her gift was , that the king " so the king " s daughter , when the spindle wounded the twelfth of the friendly fairies , who had not yet given her gift , came forward , and said that the evil wish must be fulfilled , but that she could soften its mischief ; so her gift was , that the king " s daughter , should not really die , but should only fall asleep for a hundred years . However , so the king hoped still to save his his dear child altogether from the threatened evil ; so his dear child ordered that all the spindles in the kingdom should be bought up and burnt . But all the gifts of the first eleven fairies were in the meantime fulfilled ; for the little princess was so beautiful , and well behaved , and good , and wise , that everyone who knew her the little princess loved everyone who knew her . It happened that , on the very day the little princess was fifteen years old , so the king were not at home , and the little princess was left alone in the palace . So the little princess roved about by the little princess , and looked at all the rooms and chambers , till at last the little princess came to an old tower , to which there was a narrow staircase ending with a little door . In the door there was a golden key , and when the little princess turned it the door sprang open , and there sat an old lady spinning away very busily . " Why , how now , good mother , " said the princess ; " what are you doing there you doing there ? " " Spinning , " said an old lady , and nodded an old lady head , humming a tune , while buzz ! went the wheel . " How prettily that little thing turns round ! " said the little princess , and took the spindle and began to try and spin . But scarcely had the little princess touched it , before the fairy " s prophecy was fulfilled ; the spindle wounded the little princess , and the little princess fell down lifeless on the ground . However , the little princess was not dead , but had only fallen into a deep sleep ; and so the king so the king the king and the queen , who had just come home the king and the queen , who had just come home , and all their court the queen , who had just come home , and all so the king court , fell asleep too ; and the horses slept in the stables , and the dogs in the court , the pigeons on the house - top , and the very flies slept upon the walls . Even the fire on the hearth left off blazing , and went to sleep ; the jack stopped , and the spit that was turning about with a goose upon it for so the king " s dinner stood still ; and the cook , who was at that moment pulling the kitchen - boy by the hair to give him a box on the ear for something he had done amiss the cook , who was at that moment pulling the kitchen - boy by the hair to give him a box on the ear for something he had done amiss the kitchen - boy by the hair to give the kitchen - boy a box on the ear for something the kitchen - boy had done amiss , let the cook , who was at that moment pulling the kitchen - boy by the hair to give him a box on the ear for something he had done amiss go , and both fell asleep ; the butler the butler the cook , who was at that moment pulling the kitchen - boy by the hair to give him a box on the ear for something he had done amiss lips : and thus everything stood still , and slept soundly . A large hedge of thorns soon grew round the palace , and every year it became higher and thicker ; till at last the old palace was surrounded and hidden , so that not even the roof or the chimneys could be seen . But there went a report through all the land of the beautiful sleeping this Briar Rose ( for so the king " s daughter was called ) : so that , from time to time , several kings " sons came , and tried to break through the thicket into the palace . This , however , none of them could ever do ; for the thorns and bushes laid hold of them , as it were with hands ; and there they stuck fast , and died wretchedly . After many , many years there came a king " s son into that land : and an old man an old man told a king the story of the thicket of thorns ; and how a beautiful palace stood behind it , and how a wonderful princess a wonderful princess , called Briar Rose this Briar Rose , lay in it asleep , with all a wonderful princess court . a king told , too , how a king had heard from a king his grandfather that many , many princes had come , and had tried to break through the thicket , but that many , many princes had all stuck fast in it , and died . Then the young prince said , " All this shall not frighten his grandfather ; his grandfather will go and see this Briar Rose . " an old man tried to hinder an old man , but an old man was bent upon going . Now that very day the hundred years were ended ; and as the young prince came to the thicket the young prince saw nothing but beautiful flowering shrubs , through which the young prince went with ease , and many , many princes shut in after the young prince as thick as ever . Then the young prince came at last to the palace , and there in the court lay the dogs asleep ; and the horses were standing in the stables ; and on the roof sat the pigeons fast asleep , with many , many princes heads under many , many princes wings . And when the young prince came into the palace , the flies were sleeping on the walls ; the spit was standing still ; the butler had the jug of ale at the butler lips , going to drink a draught ; the maid sat with a fowl in the maid lap ready to be plucked ; and the cook in the kitchen was still holding up the maid hand , as if the maid was going to beat the kitchen - boy . Then the young prince went on still farther , and all was so still that the young prince could hear every breath the young prince drew ; till at last the young prince came to the old tower , and opened the door of the little room in which this Briar Rose was ; and there the maid lay , fast asleep on a couch by the window . the maid looked so beautiful that the young prince could not take the young prince eyes off the maid , so the young prince stooped down and gave the maid a kiss . But the moment the young prince kissed the maid the maid opened the maid eyes and awoke , and smiled upon the young prince ; and they went out together ; and soon so the king also awoke , and all the court , and gazed on each other with great wonder . And the horses shook themselves , and the dogs jumped up and barked ; the pigeons took their heads from under their wings , and looked about and flew into the fields ; the flies on the walls buzzed again ; the fire in the kitchen blazed up ; round went the jack , and round went the spit , with the goose for so the king " s dinner upon it ; the butler finished the butler draught of ale ; the maid went on plucking the fowl ; and the cook , who was at that moment pulling the kitchen - boy by the hair to give him a box on the ear for something he had done amiss gave the kitchen - boy the box on the butler ear . And then the young prince the prince and Briar Rose this Briar Rose were married , and the wedding feast was given ; and the prince and Briar Rose lived happily together all the prince and Briar Rose lives long . 