A certain cat had made the acquaintance of a mouse , and had said so much to A certain cat about the great love and friendship A certain cat felt for A certain cat , that at length the mouse agreed that else we should live and keep house together . " But else we must make a provision for winter , or else we shall suffer from hunger , " said the cat ; " and you , little mouse you , little mouse , can not venture everywhere , or you , little mouse will be caught in a trap some day . " The good advice was followed , and a pot of fat was bought , but else we did not know where to put it . At length , after much consideration , the cat said : " the cat know no place where it will be better stored up than in the church , for no one dares take anything away from there . else we will set it beneath the altar , and not touch it until else we are really in need of it . " So the pot was placed in safety , but it was not long before the cat had a great yearning for it , and said to the mouse : " the cat want to tell you something , little mouse ; the cat my cousin has brought a little son into the world , and has asked the cat to be godmother ; my cousin is white with brown spots , and the cat am to hold my cousin over the font at the christening . Let the cat go out today , and you look after the house by you . " " Yes , yes , " answered the mouse , " by all means go , and if you get anything very good to eat , think of the cat . the cat should like a drop of sweet red christening wine the cat . " All this , however , was untrue ; the cat had my cousin , and had not been asked to be godmother . the cat went straight to the church , stole to the pot of fat , began to lick at it , and licked the top of the fat off . Then the cat took a walk upon the roofs of the town , looked out for opportunities , and then stretched the cat in the sun , and licked the cat lips whenever the cat thought of the pot of fat , and not until it was evening did the cat return home . " Well , here you are again , " said the mouse , " no doubt the cat have had a merry day . " " All went off well , " answered the cat . " What name did you give the child ? " " Top off ! " said the cat quite coolly . " Top off ! " cried the mouse , " that is a very odd and uncommon name , is it a usual one in your your family ? " " What does that matter , " said the cat , " it is no worse than Crumb - stealer , as your godchildren are called . " Before long the cat was seized by another fit of yearning . the cat said to the mouse : " You must do the cat a favour , and once more manage the house for a day alone . the cat am again asked to be godmother , and , as the child has a white ring round its neck , the cat can not refuse . " The good mouse consented , but the cat crept behind the town walls to the church , and devoured half the pot of fat . " Nothing ever seems so good as what one keeps to the cat , " said the cat , and was quite satisfied with the cat day " s work . When the cat went home the mouse inquired : " And what was the child christened ? " " Half - done , " answered the cat . " Half - done ! What are you saying ? You never heard the name in You life , You " ll wager anything it is not in the calendar ! " The cat " s mouth soon began to water for some more licking . " All good things go in threes , " said The cat " s mouth soon began to water for some more licking . " , " You am asked to stand godmother again . the child is quite black , only it has white paws , but with that exception , it has not a single white hair on its whole body ; this only happens once every few years , you will let You go , won " t you ? " " Top - off ! Half - done ! " answered the mouse , " you are such odd names , you make the child very thoughtful . " " You sit at home , " said the cat , " in your dark - grey fur coat and long tail , and are filled with fancies , that " s because you do not go out in the daytime . " During the cat " s absence the mouse cleaned the house , and put it in order , but the greedy cat entirely emptied the pot of fat . " When everything is eaten up one has some peace , " said the cat to the cat , and well filled and fat the cat did not return home till night . The mouse at once asked what name had been given to the third child . " It will not please you more than the others , " said the cat . " the third child is called All - gone . " " All - gone , " cried the mouse " that is the most suspicious name of all ! the third child have never seen it in print . All - gone ; what can that mean ? " and she shook she head , curled she up , and lay down to sleep . From this time forth no one invited the cat to be godmother , but when the winter had come and there was no longer anything to be found outside , the mouse thought of their provision , and said : " Come , cat , we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored up for ourselves — we shall enjoy that . " " Yes , " answered the cat , " you will enjoy it as much as you would enjoy sticking that dainty tongue of you out of the window . " you set out on you way , but when you arrived , the pot of fat certainly was still in its place , but it was empty . " Alas ! " said the mouse , " now the cat see what has happened , now it comes to light ! a true friend are a true friend ! a true friend have devoured all when a true friend were standing godmother . First top off , then half - done , then — " " Will you hold you tongue , " cried the cat the cat , and I will eat you too . " " All - gone " was already on the poor mouse " s lips ; scarcely had she spoken it before the cat sprang on the cat , seized the cat , and swallowed the cat down . Verily , that is the way of the world . 