a girl named Cinderella Cinderella lived with a girl named Cinderella " The stepmother her stepmother and two stepsisters her two stepsisters . Poor Cinderella had to work hard all day long so the others could rest . It was a girl named Cinderella . It was a girl named Cinderella . It was a girl named Cinderella . The poor girl could not stay clean , from all the ashes and cinders by the fire . " What a mess ! " The poor girl her two stepsisters laughed . And her two stepsisters is why her two stepsisters called The poor girl " Cinderella . " One day , big news came to town . The King and Queen King and the Queen were going to have a ball ! It was time for The Prince to find a bride . All of the young ladies in the land were invited to come . The King and Queen were wild with joy ! The King and Queen would wear The King and Queen most beautiful gown and fix The King and Queen hair extra nice . Maybe The Prince would like The King and Queen ! At Cinderella house , Cinderella now had extra work to do . Cinderella had to make two brand - new gowns for Cinderella her step - sisters . " Faster ! " shouted one step - sister . " You call that a dress ? " screamed the other . " Oh , dear ! " said Cinderella . " When can one step - sister – " The stepmother marched into the room . " When can one step - sister ? " " Well , " said The poor girl , " when will one step - sister have time to make one step - sister own dress for the ball ? " " You ? " yelled " The stepmother . " Who said YOU were going to the ball ? " " What a laugh ! " said one step - sister . " Such a mess ! " They pointed at Cinderella . All of them laughed . Cinderella said to Cinderella , " When Cinderella look at one step - sister , maybe they see a mess . But one step - sister am not that way . And if one step - sister could , one step - sister WOULD go to the ball . " Soon the time came for " The stepmother the stepmother and step - sisters her step - sisters to leave for the big party . the stepmother and step - sisters fine carriage came to the door . " The stepmother the stepmother and step - sisters her step - sisters hopped inside . And the stepmother and step - sisters were off . " Good - bye ! " called Cinderella . " Have a good time ! " But Cinderella " The stepmother the stepmother and step - sisters her step - sisters did not turn around to see " The stepmother . " Ah , one step - sister ! " said Cinderella sadly . The carriage rode down the street . Cinderella said aloud , " one step - sister wish one step - sister could go to the ball , too ! " Then - Poof ! All of a sudden , in front of her was the Fairy . " You called ? " said the Fairy . " Did one step - sister ? " said Cinderella . " Who are you ? " " Why , your Fairy Godmother , your Fairy Godmother , of course your Fairy Godmother , of course ! one step - sister know your wish . And one step - sister have come to grant it . " " But … " said Cinderella , " one step - sister wish is impossible . " " Excuse one step - sister ! " said , your Fairy Godmother in a huff . " Did one step - sister not just show up out of thin air ? " " Yes , you did , " said Cinderella . " Then let one step - sister be the one to say what is possible or not ! " " Well , one step - sister think you know one step - sister want to go to the ball , too . " one step - sister looked down at one step - sister dirty clothes . " But look at one step - sister . " " You do look a bit of a mess , child , " said , your Fairy Godmother . " Even if one step - sister had something nice to wear , " said The poor girl , " one step - sister would have no way to get there . " " Dear one step - sister , all of that is possible , " said the Fairy . With that , one step - sister tapped one step - sister wand on Cinderella " s head . At once , Cinderella was all clean . the Fairy was dressed in a beautiful blue gown . the Fairy hair was set up high on the Fairy head inside a golden band . " This is wonderful ! " said Cinderella . " Who said Cinderella was done ? " said , your Fairy Godmother . , your Fairy Godmother tapped , your Fairy Godmother wand again . At once , a beautiful carriage came to be , with a driver a driver and four white horses . " Am a driver dreaming ? " said Cinderella , looking around , your Fairy Godmother . " It is as real , as real can be , " said , your Fairy Godmother . " But there is one thing you must know . " " What is that ? " " All of this lasts only to midnight . Tonight , at the stroke of midnight , it will all be over . Everything will go back to how it was before . " " Then you must be sure to leave the ball before midnight ! " said Cinderella . " Good idea , " said , your Fairy Godmother . , your Fairy Godmother stepped back . " , your Fairy Godmother work is done . " And with that , , your Fairy Godmother was gone . Cinderella looked around , your Fairy Godmother . " Did that even happen ? " But there , your Fairy Godmother stood in a fine gown , and with a golden band in , your Fairy Godmother hair . And there were , your Fairy Godmother a driver a driver and four white horses before , your Fairy Godmother , waiting . " Coming ? " called a driver . , your Fairy Godmother stepped into the carriage . And they were off . Over at the ball , The Prince did not know what to think . " Why do you have that sad look on you face ? " the Queen said to the Queen her son . " Look around you ! You could not ask for finer maidens than these . " " The Prince know , Mother , " said The Prince . Yet The Prince knew something was wrong . The Prince had met many of the young women the young women . Yet after The Prince said " hello , " one by one , The Prince could find nothing more to say . " Look ! " Someone pointed to the front door . " Who is that ? " All heads turned . Who was that lovely maiden stepping down the stairs ? that lovely maiden held that lovely maiden head tall and looked as if that lovely maiden belonged . But no one knew that lovely maiden . " There is something about that lovely maiden , " said The Prince himself . " The Prince will ask that lovely maiden to dance . " And The Prince walked over to Cinderella . " Have Cinderella met ? " said The Prince . " Cinderella am pleased to meet you now , " said Cinderella . " The Prince feel as if The Prince know Cinderella , " said The Prince . " But of course , you is impossible . " " Many things are possible , " said Cinderella , " if you wish Cinderella to be true . " The Prince felt a leap in The Prince heart . The Prince and Cinderella danced . When the song was over , they danced again . And then they danced again , and yet again . Soon the other maidens at the ball grew jealous . " Why is he dancing all the time with her ? " the other maidens at the ball said . " How rude ! " But all the Prince could see was Cinderella . Cinderella laughed and talked , and Cinderella danced some more . In fact , Cinderella danced for so long that Cinderella did not see the clock . " Dong ! " said the clock . Cinderella looked up . " Dong ! " went the clock again . She looked up again . " Oh , my ! " she cried out . " It is almost midnight ! " " Dong ! " rung the clock . " Why does that matter ? " said The Prince . " Dong ! " called the clock . " Dong must go ! " said Cinderella . " Dong ! " went the clock . " But Cinderella just met ! " said The Prince . " Why leave now ? " " Dong ! " rung the clock . " Dong must GO ! " said Cinderella . She ran to the steps . " Dong ! " said the clock . " The Prince can not hear you , " said The Prince . " The clock is too loud ! " " Dong ! " rung the clock . " Goodbye ! " said Cinderella . Up , up the stairs she ran . " Dong ! " went the clock . " Please , stop for a moment ! " said The Prince . " Oh , dear ! " she said as one glass slipper fell off she foot on the stair . But Cinderella kept running up . " Dong ! " said the clock . " Please wait a moment ! " said The Prince . " Dong ! " rung the clock . " Goodbye ! " Cinderella turned one last time . Then she rushed out the door . " Dong ! " The clock was quiet . It was midnight . " Wait ! " called The Prince . The Prince picked up her glass slipper and rushed out the door . The Prince looked around but could not see her blue dress anywhere . " This is all The Prince have left from her , " The Prince said , looking down at the glass slipper . The Prince saw that it was made in a special way , to fit a foot like none other . " Somewhere there is the other glass slipper , " The Prince said . " And when The Prince find it , The Prince will find her , too . Then The Prince will ask a bride to be The Prince a bride ! " From hut to hut , from house to house , went The Prince . One young woman after another tried to fit her foot inside the glass slipper . a bride foot inside the glass slipper . But none could fit . And so The Prince moved on . At last The Prince came to Cinderella house . " The Prince is coming ! " called one step - sister as she Cinderella looked out the window . " At the door ! " screamed the other step - sister . " Quick ! " yelled " The stepmother . " Get ready ! One of you must be the one to fit your foot in that slipper . No matter what ! " The Prince knocked . " The stepmother flew open the door . " Come in ! " " The stepmother said . " one step - sister have two lovely daughters for you to see . " The first step - sister tried to place The first step - sister foot in the glass slipper . The first step - sister tried hard , but it just would not fit . Then the second step - sister tried to fit the second step - sister foot inside . the second step - sister tried and tried with all the second step - sister might , too . But no dice . " Are there no other young women in the house ? " said The Prince . " None , " said " The stepmother . " Then one step - sister must go , " said The Prince . " Maybe there is one more , " said Cinderella , stepping into the room . " one step - sister thought you said there were no other young women in the house here , " said The Prince . " None who matter ! " said " The stepmother in a hiss . " Come here , " said The Prince . Cinderella stepped up to The Prince . The Prince got down on one knee and tried the glass slipper on Cinderella foot . It fit perfectly ! Then , from Cinderella pocket Cinderella took out something . It was the other glass slipper ! " one step - sister knew it ! " he cried . " You are the one ! " " WHAT ? " shouted a step - sister . " Not HER ! " screamed the other step - sister . " This can not BE ! " yelled " The stepmother . But it was too late . The Prince knew that Cinderella was the one . The Prince looked into Cinderella eyes . The Prince did not see the cinders in Cinderella hair or the ashes on Cinderella face . " one step - sister have found you ! " you said . " And one step - sister have found you , " said Cinderella . And so Cinderella Cinderella The Prince were married , and Cinderella lived happily ever after . 