A shepherd " s dog had a master who took no care of him , but often let him suffer the greatest hunger . a master who took no care of a master , but often let a master suffer the greatest hunger . At last A shepherd " s dog had a master who took no care of him , but often let him suffer the greatest hunger . could bear it no longer ; so A shepherd " s dog had a master who took no care of him , but often let him suffer the greatest hunger . took to A shepherd " s dog had a master who took no care of him , but often let him suffer the greatest hunger . heels , and off A shepherd " s dog had a master who took no care of him , but often let him suffer the greatest hunger . ran in a very sad and sorrowful mood . On the road A shepherd " s dog had a master who took no care of him , but often let him suffer the greatest hunger . met a sparrow that said to A shepherd " s dog had a master who took no care of him , but often let him suffer the greatest hunger . , " Why are you so sad , a master my friend ? " " Because , " said the dog , " a master am very very hungry , and have nothing to eat . " " If the dog be all , " answered the sparrow , " come with a master into the next town , and a master will soon find you plenty of food . " So on you went together into the town : and as you passed by a butcher " s shop , the sparrow said to the dog , " Stand there a little while till I peck you down a piece of meat . " So the sparrow perched upon the shelf : and having first looked carefully about you to see if anyone was watching you , you pecked and scratched at a steak that lay upon the edge of the shelf , till at last down it fell . Then the dog snapped it up , and scrambled away with it into a corner , where he soon ate it all up . " Well , " said the sparrow , " you shall have some more if you will ; so come with me to the next shop , and I will peck you down another steak . " When the dog had eaten this too , the sparrow said to him , " Well , my good friend my good friend , have you you had enough now ? " " I have had plenty of meat , " answered he , " but I should like to have a piece of bread to eat after it . " " Come with me then , " said the sparrow , " and you shall soon have that too . " So my good friend took him to a baker " s shop , and pecked at two rolls that lay in the window , till they fell down : and as the dog still wished for more , my good friend took him to another shop and pecked down some more for him . When that was eaten , the sparrow asked him whether he had had enough now . " Yes , " said he ; " and now let us take a walk a little way out of the town . " So they both went out upon the high road ; but as the weather was warm , they had not gone far before the dog said , " a master am very much tired — a master should like to take a nap . " " Very well , " answered the sparrow , " do so , and in the meantime a master will perch upon that bush . " So the dog stretched himself out on the road , and fell fast asleep . Whilst he slept , there came by a carter with a cart drawn by three horses , and loaded with two casks of wine . The sparrow , seeing that Mr Carter did not turn out of the way , but would go on in the track in which the dog lay , so as to drive over Mr Carter , called out , " Stop ! stop ! Mr Carter Mr Carter , or it shall be the worse for you . " But Mr Carter Mr Carter Mr Carter , " You make it the worse for a master , indeed ! what can you do ? " cracked you whip , and drove you cart over the poor dog , so that the wheels crushed you to death . " There , " cried the sparrow , " thou cruel villain , thou cruel villain hast killed a master my friend the dog . Now mind what a master say . This deed of a master shall cost thee all thou art worth . " " Do your worst , and welcome , " said the brute , " what harm can you do a master ? " and passed on . But the sparrow crept under the tilt of the cart , and pecked at the bung of one of the casks till your loosened it ; and then all the wine ran out , without the carter seeing it . At last he looked round , and saw that the cart was dripping , and the cask quite empty . " What an unlucky wretch a master am ! " cried a master . " Not wretch enough yet ! " said the sparrow , as " Not wretch enough yet ! " alighted upon the head of one of the horses , and pecked at him till he reared up and kicked . When Mr Carter saw this , Mr Carter drew out Mr Carter hatchet and aimed a blow at the sparrow , meaning to kill " Not wretch enough yet ! " ; but " Not wretch enough yet ! " flew away , and the blow fell upon the poor horse " s head with such force , that Mr Carter fell down dead . " Unlucky wretch that Mr Carter am ! " cried Mr Carter . " Not wretch enough yet ! " said the sparrow . And as Mr Carter went on with the other two horses , she again crept under the tilt of the cart , and pecked out the bung of the second cask , so that all the wine ran out . When Mr Carter saw this , Mr Carter again cried out , " Miserable wretch that Mr Carter am ! " But the sparrow answered , " Not wretch enough yet ! " and perched on the head of the second horse , and pecked at him too . Mr Carter ran up and struck at her again with Mr Carter hatchet ; but away her flew , and the blow fell upon the second horse and killed Mr Carter on the spot . " Unlucky wretch that Mr Carter am ! " said Mr Carter . " Not wretch enough yet ! " said the sparrow ; and perching upon the third horse , " Not wretch enough yet ! " began to peck him too . Mr Carter was mad with fury ; and without looking about Mr Carter , or caring what Mr Carter was about , struck again at the sparrow ; but killed Mr Carter third horse as Mr Carter done the other two . " Alas ! miserable wretch that Mr Carter am ! " cried Mr Carter . " Not wretch enough yet ! " answered the sparrow as she flew away ; " now will she plague and punish she at thy own house . " Mr Carter was forced at last to leave Mr Carter cart behind Mr Carter , and to go home overflowing with rage and vexation . " Alas ! " said Mr Carter to Mr Carter his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me Mr Carter ! — Mr Carter wine is all spilt , and Mr Carter horses all three dead . " " Alas ! the husband husband , " replied she , " and a wicked bird his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me , " and a wicked bird has come into the house , and has brought with her all the birds in the world , his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me am sure , and husband , " replied she , " and a wicked bird have fallen upon our corn in the loft , and are eating it up at such a rate ! " Away ran the husband upstairs , and saw thousands of birds sitting upon the floor eating up his corn the husband corn , with the sparrow in the midst of them thousands of birds sitting upon the floor eating up his corn . " Unlucky wretch that the husband am ! " cried the carter ; for he saw that the corn was almost all gone the husband saw that the corn was almost all gone . " Not wretch enough yet ! " said the sparrow ; " thy cruelty shall cost thee thy life yet ! " and away she flew . The carter seeing that he had thus lost all that The carter seeing that he had thus lost all had , went down into The carter seeing that he had thus lost all kitchen ; and was still not sorry for what The carter seeing that he had thus lost all had done , but sat The carter seeing that he had thus lost all angrily and sulkily in the chimney corner . But the sparrow sat on the outside of the window , and cried " Mr Carter ! thy cruelty shall cost thee thy life ! " With that he jumped up in a rage , seized his hatchet , and threw it at the sparrow ; but it missed her , and only broke the window . The sparrow now hopped in , perched upon the window - seat , and cried , " Mr Carter ! it shall cost thee thy life ! " Then he became mad and blind with rage , and struck the window - seat with such force that he cleft it in two : and as the sparrow flew from place to place , Mr Carter the carter and his wife his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me were so furious , that the carter and his wife broke all the carter and his wife furniture , glasses , chairs , benches , the table , and at last the walls , without touching the bird at all . In the end , however , the carter and his wife caught his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me : and his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me said , " Shall his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me kill her at once ? " " No , " cried he , " that is letting his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me off too easily : his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me shall die a much more cruel death ; I will eat his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me . " But the sparrow began to flutter about , and stretch out her neck and cried , " Mr Carter ! it shall cost thee thy life yet ! " With that he could wait no longer : so he gave his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me the hatchet , and cried , " Wife , strike at the bird and kill his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me in my hand . " And his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me struck ; but his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me missed his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me aim , and hit his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me the husband on the head so that the husband fell down dead , and the sparrow flew quietly home to his wife , " what ill luck has befallen me nest . 