There was once a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty , close by the seaside his his wife in a pigsty , close by the seaside . The fisherman used to go out all day long a-fishing ; and one day , as The fisherman sat on the shore with The fisherman rod , looking at the sparkling waves and watching The fisherman line , all on a sudden The fisherman float was dragged away deep into the water : and in drawing it up The fisherman pulled out a great fish . But the fish said , " Pray let me live ! I am not a real fish ; I am an enchanted prince : put me in the water again , and let me go ! " " Oh , ho ! " said the man , " you need not make so many words about the matter ; the man will have nothing to do with a fish that can talk : so swim away , sir , as soon as you please ! " Then the man put the man back into the water , and the fish darted straight down to the bottom , and left a long streak of blood behind him on the wave . When The fisherman went home to The fisherman his wife in a pigsty in the pigsty , The fisherman told his wife in a pigsty how The fisherman had caught a great fish , and how it had told The fisherman it was an enchanted prince , and how , on hearing it speak , he had let it go again . " Did not you ask it for anything ? " said his wife in a pigsty , " you live very wretchedly here , in this nasty dirty pigsty ; do go back and tell the fish you want a snug little cottage . " The fisherman did not much like the business : however , The fisherman went to the seashore ; and when The fisherman came back there the water looked all yellow and green . And The fisherman stood at the water " s edge , and said : " O man of the sea ! Hearken to me ! My wife Ilsabill My wife Ilsabill have My wife Ilsabill own will , And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee ! " Then the fish came swimming to him , and said , " Well , what is My wife Ilsabill will ? What does your his wife in a pigsty want ? " " Ah ! " said The fisherman , " his wife in a pigsty says that when I had caught you , I ought to have asked you for something before I let you go ; his wife in a pigsty does not like living any longer in the pigsty , and wants a snug little cottage . " " Go home , then , " said the fish ; " his wife in a pigsty is in the cottage already ! " So the man went home , and saw the man his wife in a pigsty standing at the door of a nice trim little cottage . " Come in , come in ! " said his wife in a pigsty ; " is not this much better than the filthy pigsty we had ? " And there was a parlour , and a bedchamber , and a kitchen ; and behind the cottage there was a little garden , planted with all sorts of flowers and fruits ; and there was a courtyard behind , full of ducks and chickens . " Ah ! " said The fisherman , " how happily we shall live now ! " " we will try to do so , at least , " said The fisherman his wife in a pigsty . Everything went right for a week or two , and then My wife Ilsabill said , " " Husband , " said she , there is not near room enough for we in this cottage ; the courtyard and the garden are a great deal too small ; I should like to have a large stone castle to live in : go to the fish again and tell him to give we a castle . " " Wife , " said The fisherman The fisherman The fisherman again , for perhaps The fisherman will be angry ; we ought to be easy with this pretty cottage to live in . " " Nonsense ! " said his wife in a pigsty The fisherman will do it very willingly , " Husband , " said she know ; go along and try ! " The fisherman went , but The fisherman heart was very heavy : and when The fisherman came to the sea , it looked blue and gloomy , though it was very calm ; and " Husband , " said she went close to the edge of the waves , and said : " O man of the sea ! Hearken to " Husband , " said she ! " Husband , " said she My wife Ilsabill My wife Ilsabill have My wife Ilsabill own will , And hath sent " Husband , " said she to beg a boon of My wife Ilsabill ! " " Well , what does My wife Ilsabill want now ? " said the fish . " Ah ! " said the man , dolefully , " the man his wife in a pigsty wants to live in a stone castle . " " Go home , then , " said the fish ; " his wife in a pigsty is standing at the gate of it already . " So away went The fisherman , and found The fisherman his wife in a pigsty standing before the gate of a great castle . " See , " said his wife in a pigsty , " is not this grand ? " With that they went into the castle together , and found a great many servants there , and the rooms all richly furnished , and full of golden chairs and tables ; and behind the castle was a garden , and around it was a park half a mile long , full of sheep , and goats , and hares , and deer ; and in the courtyard were stables and cow - houses . " Well , " said the man , " now they will live cheerful and happy in this beautiful castle for the rest of they lives . " " Perhaps they may , " said his wife in a pigsty ; " but let they sleep upon it , before they make up they minds to they . " So they went to bed . The next morning when My wife Ilsabill awoke it was broad daylight , and My wife Ilsabill jogged The fisherman with My wife Ilsabill elbow , and said , " Get up , husband , and bestir yourself , for they must be the king . " his wife in a pigsty his wife in a pigsty , " said the man , " why should yourself wish to be the king ? his wife in a pigsty will not be king . " " Then his wife in a pigsty will , " said his wife in a pigsty . " But , wife , " said The fisherman , " how can you be king — the fish can not make you you a king ? " " Husband , " said she you , " say no more about it , but go and try ! " Husband , " said she will be king . " So the man went away quite sorrowful to think that the man his wife in a pigsty should want to be king . This time the sea looked a dark grey colour , and was overspread with curling waves and the ridges of foam as the man cried out : " O man of the sea ! Hearken to the man ! the man My wife Ilsabill My wife Ilsabill have My wife Ilsabill own will , And hath sent the man to beg a boon of the man ! " " Well , what would My wife Ilsabill have now ? " said the fish . " Alas ! " said the poor man , " the poor man his wife in a pigsty wants to be king . " " Go home , " said the fish ; " his wife in a pigsty is king already . " Then The fisherman went home ; and as The fisherman came close to the palace The fisherman saw a troop of soldiers , and heard the sound of drums and trumpets . And when The fisherman went in The fisherman saw The fisherman his wife in a pigsty sitting on a throne of gold and diamonds , with a golden crown upon his wife in a pigsty head ; and on each side of his wife in a pigsty stood six fair maidens six fair maidens , each a head taller than the other . " Well , wife , " said The fisherman , " are The fisherman king ? " " Yes , " said his wife in a pigsty , " his wife in a pigsty am king . " And when The fisherman had looked at his wife in a pigsty for a long time , The fisherman said , " Ah , wife ! what a fine thing it is to be king ! Now we shall never have anything more to wish for as long as we live . " " The fisherman don " t know how we may be , " said his wife in a pigsty ; " never is a long time . I am king , it is true ; but I begin to be tired of that , and I think I should like to be emperor . " " Alas , wife ! why should you wish to be emperor ? " said The fisherman . " " Husband , " said she , " said you , " go to the fish ! I say I will be emperor . " " Ah , wife ! " replied The fisherman , " the fish can not make an emperor , I am sure , and I should not like to ask The fisherman for such a thing . " " I am king , " said My wife Ilsabill , " and my slave are my slave ; so go at once ! " So The fisherman was forced to go ; and The fisherman muttered as The fisherman went along , " This will come to no good , it is too much to ask ; the fish will be tired at last , and then we shall be sorry for what we have done . " The fisherman soon came to the seashore ; and the water was quite black and muddy , and a mighty whirlwind blew over the waves and rolled them about , but he went as near as he could to the water " s The fisherman went as near as The fisherman could to the water " s brink , and said : " O man of the sea ! Hearken to The fisherman ! The fisherman My wife Ilsabill My wife Ilsabill have My wife Ilsabill own will , And hath sent The fisherman to beg a boon of The fisherman ! " " What would My wife Ilsabill have now ? " said the fish . " Ah ! " said The fisherman , " My wife Ilsabill wants to be emperor . " " Go home , " said the fish ; " My wife Ilsabill is emperor already . " So he went home again ; and as he came near he saw his wife in a pigsty Ilsabill sitting on a very lofty throne made of solid gold , with a great crown on her head full two yards high ; and on each side of her his wife in a pigsty head full two yards high ; and on each side of his wife in a pigsty stood Ilsabill sitting on a very lofty throne made of solid gold , with a great crown on her head full two yards high ; and on each side of her her guards and attendants in a row , each one smaller than the other , from the tallest giant down to a little dwarf no bigger than my finger a little dwarf no bigger than my finger . And before his wife in a pigsty stood princes princes , and dukes , and earls : dukes , and earls : and The fisherman went up to his wife in a pigsty and said , " Wife , are you emperor ? " " Yes , " said his wife in a pigsty , " his wife in a pigsty am emperor . " " Ah ! " said the man the man the man gazed upon his wife in a pigsty , " what a fine thing it is to be emperor ! " " " Husband , " said she , " said his wife in a pigsty , " why should we stop at being emperor ? his wife in a pigsty will be pope next . " " O wife , wife ! " said " Husband , " said she , " how can you be pope ? there is but one pope at a time in Christendom . " " Husband , " said she , " said she , " she will be " Husband , " said she . " " But , " replied " Husband , " said she , " the fish can not make you pope . " " What nonsense ! " said you ; " if " Husband , " said she can make an emperor , " Husband , " said she can make a pope : go and try " Husband , " said she . " So The fisherman went . But when The fisherman came to the shore the wind was raging and the sea was tossed up and down in boiling waves , and the ships were in trouble , and rolled fearfully upon the tops of the billows . In the middle of the heavens there was a little piece of blue sky , but towards the south all was red , as if a dreadful storm was rising . At this sight The fisherman was dreadfully frightened , and The fisherman trembled so that The fisherman knees knocked together : but still The fisherman went down near to the shore , and said : " O man of the sea ! Hearken to The fisherman ! The fisherman My wife Ilsabill My wife Ilsabill have My wife Ilsabill own will , And hath sent The fisherman to beg a boon of My wife Ilsabill ! " " What does My wife Ilsabill want now ? " said the fish . " Ah ! " said The fisherman , " The fisherman his wife in a pigsty wants to be pope . " " Go home , " said the fish ; " his wife in a pigsty is pope already . " Then The fisherman went home , and found My wife Ilsabill sitting on a throne that was two miles high . And My wife Ilsabill had three great crowns on My wife Ilsabill head , and around My wife Ilsabill stood all the pomp and power of the Church . And on each side of My wife Ilsabill were two rows of burning lights , of all sizes , the greatest as large as the highest and biggest tower in the world , and the least no larger than a small rushlight . " Wife , " said The fisherman The fisherman The fisherman looked at all this greatness , " are you pope ? " " Yes , " said you , " you am pope . " " Well , wife , " replied The fisherman , " it is a grand thing to be pope ; and now you must be easy , for you can be nothing greater . " " his wife in a pigsty will think about that , " said his wife in a pigsty . Then they went to bed : but My wife Ilsabill could not sleep all night for thinking what My wife Ilsabill should be next . At last , as My wife Ilsabill was dropping asleep , morning broke , and the sun rose . " Ha ! " thought My wife Ilsabill , as My wife Ilsabill woke up and looked at it through the window , " after all My wife Ilsabill can not prevent the sun rising . " At this thought My wife Ilsabill was very angry , and wakened My wife Ilsabill " Husband , " said she , and said , " " Husband , " said she , go to the fish and tell " Husband , " said she My wife Ilsabill must be lord of the sun and moon . " The fisherman was half asleep , but the thought frightened The fisherman so much that The fisherman started and fell out of bed . " Alas , wife ! " said The fisherman , " can not you be easy with being pope ? " " No , " said you , " rise without my leave am very uneasy as long as the sun and moon rise without my leave rise without my leave leave . Go to the fish at once ! " Then the man went shivering with fear ; and as the man was going down to the shore a dreadful storm arose , so that the trees and the very rocks shook . And all the heavens became black with stormy clouds , and the lightnings played , and the thunders rolled ; and you might have seen in the sea great black waves , swelling up like mountains with crowns of white foam upon their heads . And The fisherman crept towards the sea , and cried out , as well as The fisherman could : " said : " O man of the sea ! Hearken to The fisherman ! The fisherman My wife Ilsabill My wife Ilsabill have My wife Ilsabill own will , And hath sent The fisherman to beg a boon of The fisherman ! " " What does My wife Ilsabill want now ? " said the fish . " Ah ! " said he , " My wife Ilsabill wants to be lord of the sun and moon . " " Go home , " said the fish , " to your pigsty again . " And there your live to this very day . 