One fine evening a young princess put on a young princess bonnet and clogs , and went out to take a walk by a young princess in a wood ; and when a young princess came to a cool spring of water , that rose in the midst of it , a young princess sat a young princess down to rest a while . Now a young princess had a golden ball in a young princess hand , which was a young princess favourite plaything ; and a young princess was always tossing it up into the air , and catching it again as it fell . After a time a young princess threw it up so high that a young princess missed catching it as it fell ; and the ball bounded away , and rolled along upon the ground , till at last it fell down into the spring . Princess looked into the spring after Princess ball , but it was very deep , so deep that Princess could not see the bottom of it . Then Princess began to bewail Princess loss , and said , " Alas ! if Princess could only get Princess ball again , Princess would give all Princess fine clothes and jewels , and everything that Princess have in the world . " Whilst Princess was speaking , a frog put its head out of the water , and said , " Princess , why do you weep so bitterly ? " " Alas ! " said Princess , " what can you do for a handsome prince , Princess ? a handsome prince golden ball has fallen into the spring . " a handsome prince said , " a handsome prince want not you pearls , and jewels , and fine clothes ; but if you will love a handsome prince , and let a handsome prince live with you and eat from off you golden plate , and sleep upon you bed , a handsome prince will bring you you ball again . " " What nonsense , " thought Princess , " this silly frog is talking ! a handsome prince can never even get out of the spring to visit me , though a handsome prince may be able to get my ball for me , and therefore I will tell a handsome prince a handsome prince shall have what a handsome prince asks . " So Princess said to a handsome prince , " Well , if you will bring Princess Princess ball , Princess will do all you ask . " Then a handsome prince put a handsome prince head down , and dived deep under the water ; and after a little while a handsome prince came up again , with the ball in a handsome prince mouth , and threw it on the edge of the spring . As soon as a young princess saw a young princess ball , a young princess ran to pick it up ; and a young princess was so overjoyed to have it in a young princess hand again , that a young princess never thought of a handsome prince , but ran home with it as fast as a young princess could . a handsome prince called after a young princess , " Stay , princess , and take a handsome prince with Princess as Princess said , " But a young princess did not stop to hear a word . The next day , just as Princess had sat down to dinner , Princess heard a strange noise — tap , tap — plash , plash — as if something was coming up the marble staircase : and soon afterwards there was a gentle knock at the door , and a little voice cried out and said : " Open the door , Princess my princess dear , Open the door to thy true love here ! And mind the words that thou and I Princess said By the fountain cool , in the greenwood shade . " Then Princess ran to the door and opened it , and there Princess saw a handsome prince a handsome prince Princess had quite forgotten . At this sight Princess was sadly frightened , and shutting the door as fast as Princess could came back to Princess seat . The king The king Princess The king The king Princess , asked Princess what was the matter . " There is a nasty frog , " said Princess , " at the door , that lifted Princess ball for Princess out of the spring this morning : Princess told The king that The king should live with Princess here , thinking that The king could never get out of the spring ; but there The king is at the door , and The king wants to come in . " While Princess was speaking a handsome prince knocked again at the door , and said : " Open the door , The king my princess dear , Open the door to thy true love here ! And mind the words that thou and I The king said By the fountain cool , in the greenwood shade . " Then The king said to a young princess , " As you have given you word you must keep it ; so go and let a handsome prince in . " a young princess did so , and a handsome prince hopped into the room , and then straight on — tap , tap — plash , plash — from the bottom of the room to the top , till a handsome prince came up close to the table where Princess sat . " Pray lift a young princess upon chair , " said a handsome prince to Princess , " and let a handsome prince sit next to you . " As soon as a young princess had done this , a handsome prince said , " Put you plate nearer to a handsome prince , that a handsome prince may eat out of it . " a young princess did , and when a handsome prince had eaten as much as a handsome prince could , a handsome prince said , " Now a handsome prince am tired ; carry a handsome prince upstairs , and put a handsome prince into your bed . " And Princess Princess , took a handsome prince up in Princess hand , and put a handsome prince upon the pillow of Princess own bed , where a handsome prince slept all night long . As soon as it was light a handsome prince jumped up , hopped downstairs , and went out of the house . " Now , then , " thought Princess , " at last a handsome prince is gone , and Princess shall be troubled with a handsome prince no more . " But Princess was mistaken ; for when night came again Princess heard the same tapping at the door ; and a handsome prince came once more , and said : " Open the door , Princess my princess dear , Open the door to thy true love here ! And mind the words that thou and I Princess said By the fountain cool , in the greenwood shade . " And when Princess opened the door a handsome prince came in , and slept upon Princess pillow as before , till the morning broke . And the third night a handsome prince did the same . But when Princess awoke on the following morning Princess was astonished to see , instead of a handsome prince a handsome prince a handsome prince , gazing on Princess with the most beautiful eyes Princess had ever seen , and standing at the head of Princess bed . a handsome prince told Princess that a handsome prince had been enchanted by a spiteful fairy a spiteful fairy , who had changed him into a frog a handsome prince into a frog ; and that a handsome prince had been fated so to abide till some princess should take a handsome prince out of the spring , and let a handsome prince eat from some princess plate , and sleep upon some princess bed for three nights . " You , " said a handsome prince , " have broken a handsome prince cruel charm , and now You have nothing to wish for but that You should go with a handsome prince You The king s kingdom , where You will marry you , and love you as long as you live . " a young princess , You may be sure , was not long in saying " Yes " to all this ; and as they spoke a gay coach drove up , with eight beautiful horses , decked with plumes of feathers and a golden harness ; and behind a gay coach rode a handsome prince " s servant , faithful Heinrich , who had bewailed the misfortunes of his dear master during his enchantment so long and so bitterly , that his heart had well - nigh burst faithful Heinrich faithful Heinrich , who had bewailed the misfortunes of his dear master during his enchantment so long and so bitterly , that his heart had well - nigh burst Heinrich , who had bewailed the misfortunes of a gay coach his dear master during his dear master enchantment so long and so bitterly , that his dear master heart had well - nigh burst . They then took leave of The king , and got into the coach with eight horses , and all set out , full of joy and merriment , for the prince " s a handsome prince " s kingdom , which they reached safely ; and there they lived happily a great many years . 