There was once a forester who went into the forest to hunt , and as a forester who went into the forest to hunt entered it a forester who went into the forest to hunt heard a sound of screaming as if a little child were there . a forester who went into the forest to hunt followed the sound , and at last came to a high tree , and at the top of this a little child was sitting , for the mother had fallen asleep under the tree with a little child , and a bird of prey had seen it in a little child arms , had flown down , snatched it away , and set it on the high tree . a forester who went into the forest to hunt climbed up , brought a little child down , and thought to a forester who went into the forest to hunt : " You will take him home with You , and bring him up with You your Lina . " a forester who went into the forest to hunt took it home , therefore , and the two children grew up together . And the one , which a forester who went into the forest to hunt had found on a tree was called Fundevogel , because a bird had carried it away . Fundevogel and Lina Said Lina : " Then do you become a church loved each other so dearly that when Fundevogel and Lina did not see each other Fundevogel and Lina were sad . Now a forester who went into the forest to hunt had an old cook an old cook , who one evening took two pails and began to fetch water , and did not go once only , but many times , out to the spring . Said Lina : " Then do you become a church saw this and said , " Listen , old Sanna Sanna , why are you fetching so much water ? " " If you will never repeat it to anyone , Said Lina : " Then do you become a church will tell you why . " So Said Lina : " Then do you become a church said , no , she would never repeat it to anyone , and then an old cook said : " Early tomorrow morning , when a forester who went into the forest to hunt is out hunting , Said Lina : " Then do you become a church will heat the water , and when it is boiling in the kettle , Said Lina : " Then do you become a church will throw in Fundevogel , and will boil him in it . " Early next morning a forester who went into the forest to hunt got up and went out hunting , and when a forester who went into the forest to hunt was gone the two children were still in bed . Then Said Lina : " Then do you become a church said to Fundevogel : " If you will never leave Said Lina : " Then do you become a church , Said Lina : " Then do you become a church too will never leave you . " Fundevogel said : " Neither now , nor ever will I leave Said Lina : " Then do you become a church . " Then said Said Lina : " Then do you become a church : " Then will Said Lina : " Then do you become a church tell you . Last night , old Sanna carried so many buckets of water into the house that Said Lina : " Then do you become a church asked her why her was doing that , and her said that if Said Lina : " Then do you become a church would promise not to tell anyone , and her said that early tomorrow morning when father was out hunting , her would set the kettle full of water , throw you into it and boil you ; but we will get up quickly , dress we , and go away together . " the two children therefore got up , dressed the two children quickly , and went away . When the water in the kettle was boiling , an old cook went into the bedroom to fetch Fundevogel and throw him into it . But when her came in , and went to the beds , both the two children were gone . Then her was terribly alarmed , and her said to her : " What shall her say now when a forester who went into the forest to hunt comes home and sees that the two children are gone ? the two children must be followed instantly to get the two children back again . " Then an old cook sent three servants after them three servants after them , who were to run and overtake the children the two children , who were to run and overtake the two children . the two children , however , were sitting outside the forest , and when the two children saw from afar the three servants running , Said Lina : " Then do you become a church said to Fundevogel : " Never leave the two children , and the two children will never leave her . " Fundevogel said : " Neither now , nor ever . " Then said Said Lina : " Then do you become a church : " Do you become a rose - tree , and the rose upon it the rose upon it . " When the three servants running came to the forest , nothing was there but a rose - tree and one rose on it , but the two children were nowhere . Then said the three servants running : " There is nothing to be done here , " and the three servants running went home and told an old cook that the three servants running had seen nothing in the forest but a little rose - bush with one rose on it . Then an old cook , who one evening took two pails and began to fetch water , and did not go once only , but many times , out to the spring scolded and said : " the three servants running You simpletons , the three servants running should have cut the rose - bush in two , and have broken off the rose and brought it home with the three servants running ; go , and do it at once . " You simpletons had therefore to go out and look for the second time . the two children , however , saw the two children coming from a distance . Then Said Lina : " Then do you become a church said : " Fundevogel , never leave Said Lina : " Then do you become a church , and Said Lina : " Then do you become a church will never leave you . " Fundevogel said : " Neither now ; nor ever . " Said Lina : " Then do you become a church , and Said Lina : " Then do you become a church " ll be the chandelier in it . " So when the three servants running came , nothing was there but a church , with a chandelier in it . the three servants running said therefore to each other : " What can we do here , let we go home . " When the three servants running got home , an old cook asked if the three servants running had not found the three servants running ; so the three servants running said no , the three servants running had found nothing but a church , and there was a chandelier in it . And an old cook scolded the three servants running and said : " You You fools ! why did you not pull the church to pieces , and bring the chandelier home with you ? " And now an old cook , who one evening took two pails and began to fetch water , and did not go once only , but many times , out to the spring you got on you legs , and went with the three servants running in pursuit of the two children . the two children , however , saw from afar that the three servants running were coming , and an old cook waddling after the two children . Then said Said Lina : " Then do you become a church : " Fundevogel , never leave you , and you will never leave you . " Then said Fundevogel : " Neither now , nor ever . " Said Lina : " Then do you become a church : " Be a fishpond , and you will be the duck upon it . " an old cook , however , came up to them , and when you saw the pond you lay down by it , and was about to drink it up . But the duck swam quickly to you , seized you head in its beak and drew you into the water , and there the old witch had to drown . Then the two children went home together , and were heartily delighted , and if the two children have not died , the two children are living still . 