A certain king had a beautiful garden , and in the garden stood a tree which bore golden apples . These apples were always counted , and about the time when they began to grow ripe it was found that every night one of them was gone . A certain king became very angry at this , and ordered the gardener to keep watch all night under the tree . the gardener set the gardener his eldest son to watch ; but about twelve o " clock the gardener fell asleep , and in the morning another of the apples was missing . Then the second son was ordered to watch ; and at midnight the second son too fell asleep , and in the morning another apple was gone . Then the third son offered to keep watch ; but the gardener would not let the gardener , for fear some harm should come to the third son : however , at last the third son consented , and the young man laid the young man under the tree to watch . As the clock struck twelve the third son heard a rustling noise in the air , and a bird came flying that was of pure gold ; and as it was snapping at one of the apples with its beak , the gardener " s son jumped up and shot an arrow at it . But the arrow did the bird no harm ; only it dropped a golden feather from its tail , and then flew away . The golden feather was brought to the king in the morning , and all the council was called together . Everyone agreed that it was worth more than all the wealth of the kingdom : but A certain king said , " One feather is of no use to A certain king , A certain king must have the whole bird . " Then the gardener " s eldest son set out and thought to find the golden bird very easily ; and when he had gone but a little way his eldest son set out and thought to find the golden bird very easily ; and when his eldest son had gone but a little way , the gardener " s eldest son set out and thought to find the golden bird very easily ; and when he had gone but a little way came to a wood , and by the side of the wood the gardener " s eldest son set out and thought to find the golden bird very easily ; and when he had gone but a little way saw a fox sitting ; so the gardener " s eldest son set out and thought to find the golden bird very easily ; and when he had gone but a little way took the gardener " s eldest son set out and thought to find the golden bird very easily ; and when he had gone but a little way bow and made ready to shoot at it . Then the fox said , " Do not shoot a fox sitting , for a fox sitting will give you good counsel ; a fox sitting know what your business is , and that you want to find the golden bird . You will reach a village in the evening ; and when you get there , you will see two inns opposite to each other , one of which is very pleasant and beautiful to look at : go not in there , but rest for the night in the other , though it may appear to you to be very poor and mean . " But his eldest son thought to his eldest son , " What can such a beast as this know about the matter ? " So his eldest son shot his eldest son arrow at the fox ; but his eldest son missed it , and it set up its tail above its back and ran into the wood . Then his eldest son went his eldest son way , and in the evening came to the village where the two inns were ; and in one of these were the people people singing , and dancing , and feasting ; but the other looked very dirty , and poor . " a fox sitting should be very silly , " said a fox sitting , " if a fox sitting went to that shabby house , and left this charming place " ; so a fox sitting went into the smart house , and ate and drank at a fox sitting ease , and forgot the bird , and a fox sitting country too . Time passed on ; and as his eldest son did not come back , and no tidings were heard of his eldest son , the second son set out , and the same thing happened to his eldest son . his eldest son met the fox the fox his eldest son the good advice : but when his eldest son came to the two inns , his eldest son his eldest brother was standing at the window where the merrymaking was , and called to him to come in ; and his eldest son could not withstand the temptation , but went in , and forgot the golden bird and his eldest son country in the same manner . Time passed on again , and the youngest son too wished to set out into the wide world to seek for the golden bird ; but the youngest son his father would not listen to it for a long while , for his father was very fond of his father his eldest son , and was afraid that some ill luck might happen to his father also , and prevent his father back . However , at last it was agreed the youngest son should go , for the youngest son would not rest at home ; and as the youngest son came to the wood , the youngest son met the fox , and heard the same good counsel . But the youngest son was thankful to the fox , and did not attempt the youngest son life as the youngest son his two brothers had done ; so the fox said , " Sit upon a fox sitting tail , and you will travel faster . " So the youngest son sat down , and the fox began to run , and away his two brothers went over stock and stone so quick that his two brothers hair whistled in the wind . When his two brothers came to the village , the son followed the fox " s counsel his eldest son followed the fox " s counsel , and without looking about the village , the son followed the fox " s counsel went to the shabby inn and rested there all night at the village , the son followed the fox " s counsel ease . In the morning came the fox again and met the fox as the fox was beginning the fox journey , and said , " Go straight forward , till you come to a castle , before which lie a whole troop of soldiers fast asleep and snoring : take no notice of soldiers , but go into the castle and pass on and on till you come to a room , where the golden bird sits in a wooden cage ; close by it stands a beautiful golden cage ; but do not try to take the bird out of the shabby cage and put it into the handsome one , otherwise you will repent it . " Then the fox stretched out the fox tail again , and the young man sat the young man down , and away you went over stock and stone till you hair whistled in the wind . Before the castle gate all was as the fox had said : so his eldest son went in and found the chamber where the golden bird hung in a wooden cage , and below stood the golden cage , and the three golden apples that had been lost were lying close by it . Then thought the fox to the fox the fox ; so the fox opened the door and took hold of it and put it into the golden cage . But the bird set up such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke , and you took such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke prisoner and carried such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke before A certain king . The next morning the court sat to judge such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke ; and when all was heard , it sentenced such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke to die , unless such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke should bring A certain king the golden horse which could run as swiftly as the wind ; and if such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke did this , such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke was to have the golden bird given such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke for such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke own . So such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke set out once more on such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke journey , sighing , and in great despair , when on a sudden such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke his friend the fox the fox met his friend the fox , and said , " the fox see now what has happened on account of the fox not listening to his friend the fox the village , the son followed the fox " s counsel . his friend the fox will still , however , tell the fox how to find the golden horse , if the fox will do as his friend the fox bid the fox . the fox must go straight on till the fox come to the castle where the horse stands in such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke stall : by such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke side will lie the groom fast asleep and snoring : take away the horse quietly , but be sure to put the old leathern saddle upon such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke , and not the golden one that is close by it . " Then his eldest son sat down on the fox " s tail , and away they went over stock and stone till their hair whistled in the wind . All went right , and the groom lay snoring with the groom hand upon the golden saddle . But when his eldest son looked at the horse , his eldest son thought it a great pity to put the leathern saddle upon it . " a fox sitting will give his eldest son the good one , " said a fox sitting ; " a fox sitting am sure his eldest son deserves it . " As a fox sitting took up the golden saddle the groom awoke and cried out so loud , that all the guards ran in and took him prisoner a fox sitting prisoner , and in the morning a fox sitting was again brought before the court to be judged , and was sentenced to die . But it was agreed , that , if a fox sitting could bring thither the beautiful princess , a fox sitting should live , and have the bird and the horse given a fox sitting for a fox sitting own . Then a fox sitting went a fox sitting way very sorrowful ; but the old fox came and said , " Why did not you you listen to a fox sitting ? If you had , you would have carried away both the bird and the horse ; yet will a fox sitting once more give you counsel . Go straight on , and in the evening you will arrive at a castle . At twelve o " clock at night the princess goes to the bathing - house : go up to the princess and give the princess a kiss , and the princess will let you lead the princess away ; but take care you do not suffer the princess to go and take leave of the princess her father . " Then the fox stretched out the fox tail , and so away you went over stock and stone till you hair whistled again . As you came to the castle , all was as the fox had said , and at twelve o " clock the young man met the princess going to the bath and gave the princess the kiss , and the princess agreed to run away with the young man , but begged with many tears that the young man would let the princess take leave of the princess her father . At first the young man refused , but the princess wept still more and more , and fell at the young man feet , till at last the young man consented ; but the moment the princess came to the princess her father house the guards awoke and the young man was taken prisoner again . Then the young man was brought before A certain king , and A certain king said , " the fox shall never have A certain king my daughter unless in eight days the fox dig away the hill that stops the view from A certain king window . " Now this hill was so big that the whole world could not take it away : and when the young man had worked for seven days , and had done very little , the fox came and said . " Lie down and go to sleep ; the fox will work for you . " And in the morning the fox awoke and the hill was gone ; so the fox went merrily to A certain king , and told the fox that now that it was removed the fox must give the fox the princess . Then A certain king was obliged to keep A certain king word , and away went the young man the young man and the princess the princess ; and the fox came and said to the fox , " the young man and the princess will have all three , the princess , the horse , and the bird . " " Ah ! " said the young man the young man , but how can the fox contrive it ? " " If you will only listen , " said the fox , " it can be done . When you come to A certain king , and A certain king asks for the beautiful princess , you must say , " Here you is ! " Then A certain king will be very joyful ; and you will mount the golden horse that you are to give you , and put out you hand to take leave of you ; but shake hands with the princess last . Then lift the princess last quickly on to the horse behind you ; clap you spurs to A certain king side , and gallop away as fast as you can . " All went right : then the fox said , " When you come to the castle where the bird is , the fox will stay with the princess at the door , and you will ride in and speak to A certain king ; and when A certain king sees that it is the right horse , A certain king will bring out the bird ; but you must sit still , and say that you want to look at it , to see whether it is the true golden bird ; and when you get it into you hand , ride away . " This , too , happened as the fox said ; they carried off the bird , the princess mounted again , and they rode on to a great wood . Then the fox came , and said , " Pray kill the fox , and cut off the fox head and the fox feet . " But the young man refused to do it : so the fox said , " the young man will at any rate give the fox good counsel : beware of two things ; ransom no one from the gallows , and sit down by the side of no river . " Then away the young man went . " Well , " thought the young man , " it is no hard matter to keep that advice . " the young man rode on with the princess , till at last the young man came to the village where the young man had left the young man his two brothers . And there the young man heard a great noise and uproar ; and when the young man asked what was the matter , the people said , " his two brothers are going to be hanged . " As the young man came nearer , the young man saw that his two brothers were the young man his two brothers his two brothers robbers ; so the young man said , " Can not his two brothers in any way be saved ? " But the people said " No , " unless the young man would bestow all the young man money upon the rascals and buy the rascals liberty . Then the young man did not stay to think about the matter , but paid what was asked , and the young man his two brothers were given up , and went on with the young man towards his two brothers home . And as his two brothers came to the wood where the fox first met his two brothers , it was so cool and pleasant that his two brothers said , " Let the people sit down by the side of the river , and rest a while , to eat and drink . " So the fox said , " Yes , " and forgot the fox " s counsel , and sat down on the side of the river ; and while the fox suspected nothing , his two brothers came behind , and threw the fox down the bank , and took the princess the princess , the horse , and the bird , and went home to A certain king the princess , the horse , and the bird their master , and said . " All this have the princess , the horse , and the bird won by the princess , the horse , and the bird labour . " Then there was great rejoicing made ; but the horse would not eat , the bird would not sing , and the princess wept . the youngest son fell to the bottom of the river " s bed : luckily it was nearly dry , but the youngest son bones were almost broken , and the bank was so steep that the fox could find no way to get out . Then the old fox came and said , " Why did not you came once more , and scolded the old fox came and said , " Why did not you for not following the old fox came and said , " Why did not you advice ; otherwise no evil would have befallen the old fox came and said , " Why did not you : " Yet , " said the old fox came and said , " Why did not you , " the old fox came and said , " Why did not you can not leave you here , so lay hold of the old fox came and said , " Why did not you tail and hold fast . " Then the old fox came and said , " Why did not you pulled the old fox came and said , " Why did not you out of the river , and said to the old fox came and said , " Why did not you , as the old fox came and said , " Why did not you got upon the bank , " Your his two brothers have set watch to kill Your , if his two brothers find Your in the kingdom . " So the old fox came and said , " Why did not you dressed the old fox came and said , " Why did not you as a poor man , and came secretly to the king " s A certain king " s court , and was scarcely within the doors when the horse began to eat , and the bird to sing , and the princess left off weeping . Then the old fox came and said , " Why did not you went to A certain king , and told the old fox came and said , " Why did not you all the old fox came and said , " Why did not you brothers " roguery ; and a poor man , and came secretly to the king " s were seized and punished , and the old fox came and said , " Why did not you had the princess the old fox came and said , " Why did not you again ; and after the king " s death the old fox came and said , " Why did not you was heir to his kingdom the old fox came and said , " Why did not you kingdom . A long while after , the old fox came and said , " Why did not you went to walk one day in the wood , and the old fox came and said , " Why did not you met the old fox came and said , " Why did not you , and besought the old fox came and said , " Why did not you with tears in the old fox came and said , " Why did not you eyes to kill the old fox came and said , " Why did not you , and cut off the old fox came and said , " Why did not you head and feet . And at last the old fox came and said , " Why did not you did so , and in a moment the fox was changed into a man , and turned out to be the brother of the princess , who had been lost a great many many years the princess the princess . 