Some men are born to good luck : all Some men do or try to do comes right — all that falls to Some men is so much gain — all Some men geese are swans — all Some men cards are trumps — toss Some men which way you will , Some men will always , like poor puss , alight upon Some men legs , and only move on so much the faster . The world may very likely not always think of Some men as Some men think of Some men , but what care Some men for the world ? what can it know about the matter ? One of these lucky beings was neighbour Hans . Seven long years Hans had worked hard for Hans Master . At last Hans said , " Master , Hans time is up ; Hans must go home and see Hans my poor mother once more : so pray pay Hans Hans wages and let Hans go . " And Master said , " a faithful and good servant have been a faithful and good servant , Hans , so a faithful and good servant pay shall be handsome . " Then Master gave Master a lump of silver as big as Master head . Hans took out Hans pocket - handkerchief , put the piece of silver into it , threw it over Hans shoulder , and jogged off on Hans road homewards . As Hans went lazily on , dragging one foot after another , The next man he met came in sight , trotting gaily along on a capital horse . " Ah ! " said Hans aloud , " what a fine thing it is to ride on horseback ! There Hans sits as easy and happy as if Hans was at home , in the chair by Hans fireside ; Hans trips against no stones , saves shoe - leather , and gets on Hans hardly knows how . " Hans did not speak so softly but the horseman heard it all , and said , " Well , friend , why do you go on foot then ? " " Ah ! " said Hans , " Hans have this load to carry : to be sure it is silver , but it is so heavy that Hans can " t hold up you head , and you must know it hurts you shoulder sadly . " " What do you say of making an exchange ? " said the horseman . " you will give you you horse , and you shall give you the silver ; which will save you a great deal of trouble in carrying such a heavy load about with you . " " With all you heart , " said Hans : " but as you are so kind to you , you must tell you one thing — you will have a weary task to draw that silver about with you . " However , the horseman got off , took the silver , helped Hans up , gave the horseman the bridle into one hand and the whip into the other , and said , " When you want to go very fast , smack your lips loudly together , and cry " Jip ! " " Hans was delighted as Hans sat on the horse , drew Hans up , squared Hans elbows , turned out Hans toes , cracked Hans whip , and rode merrily off , one minute whistling a merry tune , and another singing , " No care and no sorrow , A fig for the morrow ! We " ll laugh and be merry , Sing neigh down derry ! " After a time Hans thought Hans should like to go a little faster , so Hans smacked Hans lips and cried " Jip ! " Away went the horse full gallop ; and before Hans knew what Hans was about , Hans was thrown off , and lay on Hans back by the road - side . Hans horse would have ran off , if a shepherd who was coming by , driving a cow , had not stopped it . Poor Hans soon came to Poor Hans , and got upon Poor Hans legs again , sadly vexed , and said to a shepherd who was coming by , " This riding is no joke , when The next man he met has the luck to get upon a beast like this that stumbles and flings The next man he met off as if it would break The next man he met neck . However , Poor Hans " m off now once for all : you like your cow now a great deal better than this smart beast that played you this trick , and has spoiled you best coat , you see , in this puddle ; which , by the by , smells not very like a nosegay . One can walk along at one " s leisure behind that cow — keep good company , and have milk , butter , and cheese , every day , into the bargain . What would One give to have such a prize ! " " Well , " said a shepherd who was coming by , " if you are so fond of you , One will change One cow for you horse ; One like to do good to One my neighbours , even though One lose by it One . " " Done ! " said Poor Hans , merrily . " What a noble heart that good man has ! " thought Poor Hans . Then a shepherd who was coming by jumped upon the horse , wished Poor Hans Poor Hans good morning , and away a shepherd who was coming by rode . Poor Hans brushed Poor Hans coat , wiped Poor Hans face and hands , rested a while , and then drove off Poor Hans cow quietly , and thought Poor Hans bargain a very lucky one . " If Poor Hans have only a piece of bread ( and Poor Hans certainly shall always be able to get that ) , Poor Hans can , whenever Poor Hans like , eat Poor Hans butter and cheese with it ; and when Poor Hans am thirsty Poor Hans can milk Poor Hans cow and drink the milk : and what can Poor Hans wish for more ? " When Poor Hans came to an inn , Poor Hans halted , ate up all Poor Hans bread , and gave away Poor Hans last penny for a glass of beer . When Poor Hans had rested Poor Hans Poor Hans set off again , driving Poor Hans cow towards Poor Hans my poor mother s village . But the heat grew greater as soon as noon came on , till at last , as Poor Hans found Poor Hans on a wide heath that would take Poor Hans more than an hour to cross , Poor Hans began to be so hot and parched that Poor Hans tongue clave to the roof of Poor Hans mouth . " you can find a cure for this , " thought Poor Hans ; " now you will milk you cow and quench you thirst " : so Poor Hans tied you to the stump of a tree , and held Poor Hans leathern cap to milk into ; but not a drop was to be had . Who would have thought that this cow , which was to bring Poor Hans milk and butter and cheese , was all that time utterly dry ? Poor Hans had not thought of looking to that . While Poor Hans was trying Poor Hans luck in milking , and managing the matter very clumsily , the uneasy beast began to think Poor Hans very troublesome ; and at last gave Poor Hans such a kick on the head as knocked Poor Hans down ; and there Poor Hans lay a long while senseless . Luckily a butcher soon came by , driving a pig in a wheelbarrow . " What is the matter with you a butcher you The next man he met ? " said a butcher , as a butcher helped a butcher up . Poor Hans told Poor Hans what had happened , how Poor Hans was dry , and wanted to milk Poor Hans cow , but found the cow was dry too . Then a butcher gave a butcher a flask of ale , saying , " There , drink and refresh yourself ; your cow will give you no milk : don " t you see your is an old beast , good for nothing but the slaughter - house ? " " Alas , alas ! " said Poor Hans Poor Hans ? What a shame to take a kind horse , and give a kind only a dry cow ! If a kind kill her , what will her be good for ? a kind hate cow - beef ; it is not tender enough for a kind . If it were a pig now — like that fat gentleman you are driving along at that fat gentleman ease — one could do something with it ; it would at any rate make sausages . " " Well , " said a butcher , " a kind don " t like to say no , when one is asked to do a kind , neighbourly thing . To please you you will change , and give you you fine fat pig for the cow . " " Heaven reward you for your kindness and self - denial ! " said Poor Hans , as you gave a butcher the cow ; and taking the pig off the wheel - barrow , drove it away , holding it by the string that was tied to its leg . So on you jogged , and all seemed now to go right with you : you had met with some misfortunes , to be sure ; but you was now well repaid for all . How could it be otherwise with such a travelling companion as he had at last got you had at last got ? The next man he met such a travelling companion as he had at last got met was The next man he met . The next man he met stopped to ask what was o " clock ; this led to further chat ; and Hans told Hans all Hans luck , how Hans had so many good bargains , and how all the world went gay and smiling with Hans . The next man he met then began to tell The next man he met tale , and said The next man he met was going to take the goose to a christening . " Feel , " said The next man he met , " how heavy it is , and yet it is only eight weeks old . Whoever roasts and eats it will find plenty of fat upon it , it has lived so well ! The next man he met The next man he met , " said Poor Hans , as The next man he met weighed it in The next man he met hand ; " but if you talk of fat , you pig is no trifle . " Meantime The next man he met began to look grave , and shook The next man he met head . " Hark The next man he met ! " said he , " you my worthy friend , you seem a good sort of fellow , so you can " t help doing you a kind turn . you pig may get you into a scrape . In the village I just came from , the squire has had a pig stolen out of the squire sty . I was dreadfully afraid when I saw you that you had got the squire " s pig . If you have , and you catch you , it will be a bad job for you . The least you will do will be to throw you into the horse - pond . Can you swim ? " Poor Hans was sadly frightened . " Good man , " cried Poor Hans , " pray get you out of this scrape . you know nothing of where the pig was either bred or born ; but Poor Hans may have been the squire " s for aught I can tell : you know this country better than I do , take my pig and give me the goose you can tell : The next man he met know this country better than you do , take you pig and give you the goose . " " you ought to have something into the bargain , " said the countryman ; " give a fat goose for a pig , indeed ! " Tis not everyone would do so much for you as you . However , you will not be hard upon you , as you are in trouble . " Then you took the string in you hand , and drove off the pig by a side path ; while Poor Hans went on the way homewards free from care . " After all , " thought you , " that chap is pretty well taken in . you don " t care whose pig it is , but wherever it came from it has been a very good friend to Poor Hans . Poor Hans have much the best of the bargain . First there will be a capital roast ; then the fat will find Poor Hans in goose - grease for six months ; and then there are all the beautiful white feathers . Poor Hans will put them into Poor Hans pillow , and then Poor Hans am sure Poor Hans shall sleep soundly without rocking . How happy Poor Hans my poor mother will be ! Talk of a pig , indeed ! Give Poor Hans a fine fat goose . " As Poor Hans came to the next village , Poor Hans saw a scissor - grinder with Poor Hans wheel , working and singing , " O " er hill and my poor mother roam , Work light and live well , All the world is Poor Hans home ; Then who so blythe , so merry as Poor Hans ? " Poor Hans stood looking on for a while , and at last said , " You must be well off , master grinder ! You seem so happy at You work . " " Yes , " said the other , " mine is a golden trade ; a good grinder never puts You hand into You pocket without finding money in it — but where did you get that beautiful goose ? " " I did not buy it , I gave a pig for it . " " And where did " I get the pig ? " " I gave a cow for it . " " And the cow ? " " I gave a horse for it . " " And the horse ? " " I gave a lump of silver as big as my head for it . " " And the silver ? " " Oh ! I worked hard for that seven long years . " " You have thriven well in the world hitherto , " said the grinder , " now if you could find money in you pocket whenever you put you hand in it , you fortune would be made . " " Very true : but how is that to be managed ? " " How ? Why , you must turn grinder like myself , " said the other ; " you only want a grindstone ; the rest will come of itself . Here is one that is but little the worse for wear : I would not ask more than the value of you goose for it — will you buy ? " " How can you ask ? " said Poor Hans The next man he met should be The next man he met , if The next man he met could have money whenever The next man he met put The next man he met hand in The next man he met pocket : what could The next man he met want more ? there " s the goose . " " Now , " said the grinder , as Poor Hans gave Poor Hans a common rough stone that lay by Poor Hans side , " this is a most capital stone ; do but work it well enough , and you can make an old nail cut with it . " Poor Hans took the stone , and went Poor Hans way with a light heart : Poor Hans eyes sparkled for joy , and Poor Hans said to Poor Hans , " Surely you must have been born in a lucky hour ; everything you could want or wish for comes of itself . People are so kind ; People seem really to think you do People a favour in letting People make you rich , and giving you good bargains . " Meantime Poor Hans began to be tired , and hungry too , for Poor Hans had given away Poor Hans last penny in Poor Hans joy at getting the cow . At last Poor Hans could go no farther , for the stone tired Poor Hans sadly : and Poor Hans dragged Poor Hans to the side of a river , that Poor Hans might take a drink of water , and rest a while . So Poor Hans laid the stone carefully by Poor Hans side on the bank : but , as Poor Hans stooped down to drink , Poor Hans forgot it , pushed it a little , and down it rolled , plump into the stream . For a while Poor Hans watched it sinking in the deep clear water ; then sprang up and danced for joy , and again fell upon his knees and thanked Heaven , with tears in his eyes , for its kindness in taking away his only plague , the ugly heavy stone . " How happy am you ! " cried Poor Hans ; " nobody was ever so lucky as I. " Then up Poor Hans got with a light heart , free from all Poor Hans troubles , and walked on till he reached Poor Hans my poor mother house , and told my poor mother how very easy the road to good luck was . 