Next to a great forest there lived a poor woodcutter with a poor woodcutter his wife his wife and his two children a poor woodcutter his two children . The boy ' s name was Hansel Hansel and the girl ' s the girl ' s name was Gretel . The boy ' s had but little to eat , and once , when a great famine came to the land , The boy ' s could no longer provide even Hansel daily bread . One evening as The boy ' s was lying in bed worrying about The boy ' s problems , The boy ' s sighed and said to The boy ' s his wife his wife Hansel ? How can Hansel feed Hansel his two children when Hansel have nothing for Hansel ? " " Man , do The boy ' s know what ? " answered the woman . " Early tomorrow morning Hansel will take his two children out into the thickest part of the woods , make a fire for his two children , and give each of his two children a little piece of bread , then leave his two children by his two children and go off to Hansel work . his two children will not find his two children way back home , and Hansel will be rid of his two children . " " No , woman , " said " Man . " I will not do his two children . How could I bring myself to abandon my own children alone in the woods ? Wild animals would soon come and tear my own children to pieces . " " Oh , you fool , " she said , " then all four of us will starve . All you can do is to plane the boards for our coffins . " And you gave him no peace until him agreed . " But " Man do feel sorry for the poor children , " said " Man . his two children had not been able to fall asleep because of his two children hunger , and his two children heard what the stepmother had said to the father . Gretel cried bitter tears and said to Hansel , " It is over with Hansel ! " " Be quiet , Gretel , " said Hansel , " and don ' t worry . Gretel know what to do . " And as soon as the adults had fallen asleep , he got up , pulled on he jacket , opened the lower door , and crept outside . The moon was shining brightly , and the white pebbles in front of the house were glistening like silver coins . Hansel bent over and filled he jacket pockets with Hansel , as many as would fit . Then he went back into the house and said , " Don ' t worry , Gretel . Sleep well . Dear God will not forsake Hansel . " Then Dear God went back to bed . At daybreak , even before sunrise , the woman came and woke his two children . " Get up , he lazybones . his two children are going into the woods to fetch wood . " Then the woman gave each one a little piece of bread , saying , " Here is something for midday . " Don ' t eat it any sooner , for you ' ll not get any more . " Gretel put the bread under Gretel apron , because Hansel s pockets were full of stones . Then all together Hansel set forth into the woods . After Hansel had walked a little way , Hansel began stopping again and again and looking back toward the house . the father said , " Hansel , why are you stopping and looking back ? Pay attention now , and don ' t forget you legs . " " Oh , father , " said Hansel Hansel Hansel am looking at Hansel my white cat that is sitting on the roof and wants to say good - bye to me Hansel . " the woman said , " Hansel fool , that isn ' t Hansel my white cat that is sitting on the roof and wants to say good - bye to me . That ' s the morning sun shining on the chimney . " However , Hansel had not been looking at my white cat that is sitting on the roof and wants to say good - bye to me my white cat that is sitting on the roof and wants to say good - bye to me but instead had been dropping the shiny pebbles from my white cat that is sitting on the roof and wants to say good - bye to me pocket onto the path . When Hansel arrived in the middle of the woods , the father said , " the woman his two children gather some wood , and the father will make a fire so the woman won ' t freeze . " Hansel Hansel Gretel gathered together some twigs , a pile as high as a small mountainThe twigs were set afire , and when the flames were burning well , the woman said , " Lie down by the fire and rest . his two children will go into the woods to cut wood . When his two children are finished , his two children will come back and get the father . " Hansel Hansel Gretel sat by the fire . When midday came each one ate the father little piece of bread . Because Hansel could hear the blows of an ax , Hansel thought that the father was nearby . However , it was not an ax . It was a branch that the father had tied to a dead tree and that the wind was beating back and forth . After Hansel had sat there a long time , Hansel eyes grew weary and closed , and Hansel fell sound sleep . When Hansel finally awoke , it was dark at night . Gretel began to cry and said , " How will Hansel get out of woods ? " Hansel comforted Gretel , " Wait a little until the moon comes up , and then Hansel ' ll find the way . " After the full moon had come up , Hansel took his his little sister by the hand . Hansel followed the pebbles that glistened there like newly minted coins , showing Hansel the way . Hansel walked throughout the entire night , and as morning was breaking , Hansel arrived at the father house . Hansel knocked on the door , and when the woman opened it and saw that it was Hansel Hansel Gretel , the woman said , " Hansel wicked children , why did you sleep so long in the woods ? We thought that you did not want to come back . " But the father was overjoyed when the father saw the father his two children once more , for the father had not wanted to leave his two children alone . Not long afterward there was once again great need everywhere , and one evening his two children heard the mother say to the father , " We have again eaten up everything . We have only a half loaf of bread , and then the song will be over . We must get rid of wicked children . We will take wicked children deeper into the woods , so wicked children will not find wicked children way out . Otherwise there will be no help for We . " " Man was very disheartened , and " Man thought , " It would be better to share the last bit with wicked children . " But the woman would not listen to " Man , scolded " Man , and criticized " Man . " Man who says A must also say B , and because " Man had given in the first time , " Man had to do so the second time as well . wicked children were still awake and had overheard the conversation . When the adults were asleep , Hansel got up again and wanted to gather pebbles as " Man had done before , but the woman had locked the door , and Hansel could not get out . But " Man comforted " Man his little sister and said , " " Don ' ' t cry , Gretel . Sleep well . Dear God will help the adults . " Early the next morning the woman came and got wicked children from wicked children beds . wicked children received wicked children little pieces of bread , even less than the last time . On the way to the woods , Hansel crumbled Dear God piece in Dear God pocket , then often stood still , and threw crumbs onto the ground . " Hansel , why are " Man always stopping and looking around ? " said " Man the father . " Keep walking straight ahead . " " " Fool can see " Fool pigeon sitting on the roof . It wants to say good - bye to " Fool . " " Fool , " said the woman the woman your pigeon . That ' s the morning sun shining on the chimney . " But little by little Hansel dropped all the crumbs onto the path . the woman took them deeper into the woods than they had ever been in their whole lifetime . Once again a large fire was made , and the mother said , " Sit here , wicked children . If " Fool get tired " Fool can sleep a little . We are going into the woods to cut wood . We will come and get " Fool in the evening when we are finished . " When it was midday Gretel shared Gretel bread with Hansel Hansel " Fool piece along the path . Then Hansel fell asleep , and evening passed , but no one came to get the poor children . It was dark at night when Hansel awoke , and Hansel comforted Gretel and said , " Wait , when the moon comes up Hansel will be able to see the crumbs of bread that Hansel scattered , and Gretel will show the poor children the way back home . " When the moon appeared Hansel got up , but Hansel could not find any crumbs , for the many thousands of birds that fly about in the woods and in the fields had pecked them up Hansel up . Hansel said to Gretel , " the many thousands of birds that fly about in the woods and in the fields had pecked them up will find the many thousands of birds that fly about in the woods and in the fields had pecked them up way , " but Hansel did not find it . Hansel walked through the entire night and the next day from morning until evening , but Hansel did not find Hansel way out of the woods . Hansel were terribly hungry , for Hansel had eaten only a few small berries that were growing on the ground . And because Hansel were so tired that Hansel legs would no longer carry Hansel , Hansel lay down under a tree and fell asleep . It was already the third morning since Hansel had left the father house . Hansel started walking again , but managed only to go deeper and deeper into the woods . If help did not come soon , Hansel would perish . At midday Hansel saw a little snow - white bird sitting on a branch . It sang so beautifully that Hansel stopped to listen . When it was finished it stretched its wings and flew in front of Hansel . Hansel followed it until Hansel came to a little house . The bird sat on the roof , and when Hansel came closer , Hansel saw that the little house was built entirely from bread with a roof made of cake , and the windows were made of clear sugar . " Let ' s help ourselves to a good meal , " said Hansel . " Hansel ' ll eat a piece of the roof , and Gretel , you eat from the window . That will be sweet . " Hansel reached up and broke off a little of the roof to see how it tasted , while Gretel stood next to the windowpanes and was nibbling at Gretel . Then a gentle voice called out from inside : Nibble , nibble , little mouse , Who is nibbling at you house ? wicked children answered : The wind , the wind , The heavenly child . wicked children continued to eat , without being distracted . Hansel , who very much like the taste of the roof , tore down another large piece , and Gretel poked out an entire round windowpane . Suddenly the door opened , and a woman a woman , as old as the hills and leaning on a crutch , came creeping out . Hansel Hansel Gretel were so frightened that Hansel dropped what Hansel were holding in Hansel hands . But the old woman shook the old woman head and said , " Oh , Hansel dear children , who brought Hansel here ? Just come in and stay with the old woman . No harm will come to Hansel . " the old woman took Hansel by the hand and led Hansel into the old woman house . Then the old woman served Hansel a good meal : milk and pancakes with sugar , apples , and nuts . Afterward the old woman made two nice beds for Hansel , decked in white . Hansel Hansel Gretel went to bed , thinking Hansel were in heaven . But the old woman had only pretended to be friendly . the old woman was the old woman wicked children . the old woman had built the old woman house of bread only in order to lure wicked children to the old woman , and if the old woman captured one , the old woman would kill him , cook him , and eat him ; and for the old woman that was a day to celebrate . Witches have red eyes and can not see very far , but Witches have a sense of smell like animals , and know when humans are approaching . When Hansel Hansel Gretel came near to the old woman , the old woman laughed wickedly and spoke scornfully , " Now Hansel have Gretel . Gretel will not get away from Hansel again . " Early the next morning , before Gretel awoke , the old woman got up , went to Gretel beds , and looked at the two of them lying there so peacefully , with Gretel full red cheeks . " Gretel will be a good mouthful , " the old woman mumbled to the old woman . Then the old woman grabbed Hansel with the old woman withered hand and carried him to a little stall , where the old woman locked him behind a cage door . Cry as him might , there was no help for him . Then the old woman shook Gretel and cried , " Get up , lazybones ! Fetch water and cook something good for your your brother . your brother is locked outside in the stall and is to be fattened up . When your brother is fat the old woman am going to eat your brother . " Gretel began to cry , but it was all for nothing . the old woman had to do what the old woman demanded . Now Hansel was given the best things to eat every day , but Gretel received nothing but crayfish shells . Every morning the old woman crept out to the stall and shouted , " Hansel , stick out your finger , so the old woman can feel if your are fat yet . " But Hansel stuck out a little bone , and the old woman the old woman , thought it was Hansel s finger , and the old woman wondered why your didn ' t get fat . When four weeks had passed and Hansel was still thin , impatience overcame the old woman , and the old woman would wait no longer . " Hey , Gretel ! " the old woman shouted to the girl ' , " Hurry up and fetch some water . Whether Hansel is fat or thin , tomorrow the old woman am going to slaughter Hansel and boil Hansel . " Oh , how the poor little sister sobbed as the poor little sister was forced to carry the water , and how the tears streamed down the poor little sister cheeks ! " Dear God , please help Hansel , " the poor little sister cried . " If only the wild animals had devoured Hansel in the woods , then Hansel would have died together . " " Save your slobbering , " said the old woman . " It doesn ' t help you at all . " The next morning Gretel had to get up early , hang up the kettle with water , and make a fire . " First Gretel are going to bake , " said the old woman . " Gretel have already made a fire in the oven and kneaded the dough . " the old woman pushed poor Gretel outside to the oven , from which fiery flames were leaping . " Climb in , " said the old woman , " and see if it is hot enough to put the bread in yet . " And when Gretel was inside , the old woman intended to close the oven , and bake the old woman , and eat the old woman as well . But Gretel saw what the old woman had in mind , so the old woman said , " Gretel don ' t know how to do that . How can Gretel get inside ? " " Stupid goose , " said the old woman . The opening is big enough . See , you you could get in . " And you crawled up stuck you head into the oven . Then Gretel gave Gretel a shove , causing Gretel to fall in . Then Gretel closed the iron door and secured it with a bar . the old woman began to howl frightfully . But Gretel ran away , and the godless witch burned up miserably . Gretel ran straight to Hansel , unlocked Hansel stall , and cried , " Hansel , we are saved . The old witch is dead . " Then Hansel jumped out , like a bird from its cage when someone opens its door . How happy Hansel were ! Hansel threw Hansel arms around each other ' s necks , jumped with joy , and kissed one another . Because Hansel now had nothing to fear , Hansel went into The old witch house . In every corner were chests of pearls and precious stones . " These are better than pebbles , " said Hansel , filling Hansel pockets . Gretel said , " you will take some home with you as well , " and Gretel filled Gretel apron full . " But now we must leave , " said Hansel , " and get out of these witch - woods . " After walking a few hours we arrived at a large body of water . " we can not get across , " said Hansel . " you can not see a walkway or a bridge . " " There are no boats here , " answered Gretel , " but there is a white duck swimming . If you ask it , it will help we across . " Then you called out : Duckling Duckling , duckling , Here stand Gretel Gretel Hansel . Neither a walkway nor a bridge , Take we onto your white back . Duckling came up to Gretel , and Hansel climbed onto it , then asked Hansel his little sister to sit down next to Hansel . " No , " answered Gretel . " Duckling would be too heavy for Duckling . It should take us across one at a time . " That is what the good animal did , and when us were safely on the other side , and had walked on a little while , the woods grew more and more familiar to us , and finally us saw the father house in the distance . us began to run , rushed inside , and threw us arms around the father s neck . " Man had not had even one happy hour since " Man had left the children in the woods . However , the woman had died . Gretel shook out Gretel apron , scattering pearls and precious stones around the room , and Hansel added to Hansel by throwing one handful after the other from one handful after the other pockets . Now all Hansel cares were at an end , and Hansel lived happily together . 