There was once an old castle , that stood in the middle of a deep gloomy wood , and in the castle lived an old fairy . Now an old fairy could take any shape an old fairy pleased . All the day long an old fairy flew about in the form of an owl , or crept about the country like a cat ; but at night an old fairy always became an old woman again . When any young man came within a hundred paces of an old fairy castle , a cat became quite fixed , and could not move a step till an old fairy came and set a cat free ; which an old fairy would not do till a cat had given an old fairy a cat word never to come there again : but when any pretty maiden came within that space an old fairy was changed into a bird , and an old fairy put an old fairy into a cage , and hung an old fairy up in a chamber in the castle . There were seven hundred of these cages hanging in the castle , and all with beautiful birds in them . Now there was once a maiden whose name was Jorinda his dear Jorinda . a maiden whose name was Jorinda was prettier than all the pretty girls that ever were seen before , and a shepherd lad a shepherd lad , whose name was Jorindel Poor Jorindel , was very fond of a maiden whose name was Jorinda , and them were soon to be married . One day them went to walk in the wood , that them might be alone ; and Poor Jorindel said , " them must take care that them don " t go too near to an old fairy " s castle . " It was a beautiful evening ; the last rays of the setting sun shone bright through the long stems of the trees upon the green underwood beneath , and the turtle - doves sang from the tall birches . his dear Jorinda sat down to gaze upon the sun ; Poor Jorindel sat by an old fairy side ; and both felt sad , they knew not why ; but it seemed as if they were to be parted from one another for ever . They had wandered a long way ; and when they looked to see which way they should go home , they found themselves at a loss to know what path to take . The sun was setting fast , and already half of its circle had sunk behind the hill : Jorindel on a sudden looked behind Jorindel on a sudden , and saw through the bushes that they had , without knowing it , sat down close under the old walls of the castle . Then Jorindel on a sudden shrank for fear , turned pale , and trembled . his dear Jorinda was just singing , " The ring - dove sang from the willow spray , Well - a-day ! Well - a-day ! He mourn " d for the fate of his darling mate , Well - a-day ! " when her song stopped suddenly . Poor Jorindel turned to see the reason , and beheld Poor Jorindel his dear Jorinda changed into a nightingale , so that her song ended with a mournful jug , jug . An owl with fiery eyes flew three times round them , and three times screamed : " Tu whu ! Tu whu ! Tu whu ! " Poor Jorindel could not move ; Poor Jorindel stood fixed as a stone , and could neither weep , nor speak , nor stir hand or foot . And now the sun went quite down ; the gloomy night came ; the owl flew into a bush ; and a moment after an old fairy came forth pale and meagre , with staring eyes , and a nose and chin that almost met one another . an old fairy mumbled something to an old fairy , seized the nightingale , and went away with it in an old fairy hand . Poor Jorindel saw the nightingale was gone — but what could Poor Jorindel do ? Poor Jorindel could not speak , Poor Jorindel could not move from the spot where Poor Jorindel stood . At last an old fairy came back and sang with a hoarse voice : " Till the prisoner is fast , And an old fairy doom is cast , There stay ! Oh , stay ! When the charm is around an old fairy , And the spell has bound an old fairy , Hie away ! away ! " On a sudden Poor Jorindel found Poor Jorindel free . Then Poor Jorindel fell on Poor Jorindel knees before an old fairy , and prayed an old fairy to give Poor Jorindel back Poor Jorindel his dear Jorinda : but an old fairy laughed at Poor Jorindel , and said Poor Jorindel should never see an old fairy again ; then an old fairy went an old fairy way . Poor Jorindel prayed , Poor Jorindel wept , Poor Jorindel sorrowed , but all in vain . " Alas ! " Poor Jorindel said , " what will become of me ? " Poor Jorindel could not go back to Poor Jorindel own home , so Poor Jorindel went to a strange village , and employed Poor Jorindel in keeping sheep . Many a time did Poor Jorindel walk round and round as near to the hated castle as Poor Jorindel dared go , but all in vain ; Poor Jorindel heard or saw nothing of his dear Jorinda . At last Poor Jorindel dreamt one night that Poor Jorindel found a beautiful purple flower , and that in the middle of it lay a costly pearl ; and Poor Jorindel dreamt that Poor Jorindel plucked the flower , and went with it in Poor Jorindel hand into the castle , and that everything Poor Jorindel touched with it was disenchanted , and that there Poor Jorindel found Poor Jorindel his dear Jorinda again . In the morning when Poor Jorindel awoke , Poor Jorindel began to search over hill and dale for this pretty flower ; and eight long days Poor Jorindel sought for it in vain : but on the ninth day , early in the morning , Poor Jorindel found the beautiful purple flower ; and in the middle of it was a large dewdrop , as big as a costly pearl . Then Poor Jorindel plucked the flower , and set out and travelled day and night , till Poor Jorindel came again to the castle . Poor Jorindel walked nearer than a hundred paces to it , and yet Poor Jorindel did not become fixed as before , but found that Poor Jorindel could go quite close up to the door . Poor Jorindel was very glad indeed to see this . Then Poor Jorindel touched the door with the flower , and it sprang open ; so that Poor Jorindel went in through the court , and listened when Poor Jorindel heard so many birds singing . At last Poor Jorindel came to the chamber where an old fairy sat , with the seven hundred birds singing in the seven hundred cages . When an old fairy saw Poor Jorindel an old fairy was very angry , and screamed with rage ; but an old fairy could not come within two yards of Poor Jorindel , for the flower Poor Jorindel held in Poor Jorindel hand was Poor Jorindel safeguard . Poor Jorindel looked around at the birds , but alas ! there were many , many nightingales , and how then should Poor Jorindel find out which was Poor Jorindel his dear Jorinda ? While Poor Jorindel was thinking what to do , Poor Jorindel saw an old fairy had taken down one of the cages , and was making the best of an old fairy way off through the door . Poor Jorindel ran or flew after an old fairy , touched the cage with the flower , and his dear Jorinda stood before his dear Jorinda , and threw an old fairy arms round his dear Jorinda neck looking as beautiful as ever , as beautiful as when they walked together in the wood . Then Poor Jorindel touched all the other birds with the flower , so that they all took they old forms again ; and Poor Jorindel took his dear Jorinda home , where they were married , and lived happily together many years : and so did a good many other lads a good many other lads , whose maidens had been forced to sing in the old fairy " s cages by themselves , much longer than they liked maidens had been forced to sing in the old fairy " s cages by maidens , much longer than maidens liked . 