Once upon a time , there was a little girl who lived in a village near the forest . Whenever a little girl who lived in a village near the forest went out , a little girl who lived in a village near the forest wore a red riding cloak , so everyone in the village called everyone in the village Little Red Riding Hood . One morning , Little Red Riding Hood asked a little girl who lived in a village near the forest her mother if her mother could go to visit her mother Grandmother as it had been awhile since they ' d seen each other . " That ' s a good idea , " her mother her mother said . So they packed a nice basket for Little Red Riding Hood to take to her mother Grandmother . When the basket was ready , a little girl who lived in a village near the forest put on a little girl who lived in a village near the forest red cloak and kissed a little girl who lived in a village near the forest mother goodbye . " Remember , go straight to my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook ' s house , " my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook her mother cautioned . " Don ' t dawdle along the way and please don ' t talk to strangers ! The woods are dangerous . " " Don ' t worry , mommy , " said Little Red Riding Hood , " I ' ll be careful . " But when Little Red Riding Hood noticed some lovely flowers in the woods , she forgot she promise to she her mother . she picked a few , watched the butterflies flit about for awhile , listened to the frogs croaking and then picked a few more . Little Red Riding Hood was enjoying the warm summer day so much , that she didn ' t notice a dark shadow approaching out of the forest behind she . . . Suddenly , the wolf appeared beside she . " What are you doing out here , little girl ? " the wolf asked in a voice as friendly as the wolf could muster . " I ' m on my way to see my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook , " Little Red Riding Hood replied . Then my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook realized how late my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook was and quickly excused my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook , rushing down the path to my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook her Grandma ' s house . The wolf The wolf , took a shortcut . . . The wolf The wolf , arrived at her Grandma ' s house s and knocked lightly at the door . " Oh thank goodness dear ! Come in , come in ! my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook was worried sick that something had happened to you in the forest , " said my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook thinking that the knock was my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook her granddaughter . The wolf let The wolf in . Granny ' did not have time to say another word , before The wolf gobbled Granny ' up ! The wolf let out a satisfied burp , and then poked through Granny ' s wardrobe to find a nightgown that The wolf liked . The wolf added a frilly sleeping cap , and for good measure , dabbed some of Granny ' s perfume behind The wolf pointy ears . A few minutes later , Red Riding Hood knocked on the door . The wolf jumped into bed and pulled the covers over The wolf nose . " Who is it ? " The wolf called in a cackly voice . " It ' s The wolf The wolf . " " Oh how lovely ! Do come in , The wolf dear , " croaked The wolf . When Little Red Riding Hood entered the little cottage , she could scarcely recognize she Grandmother . Grandmother Your voice sounds so odd . Is something the matter ? " she asked . " Oh , she just have touch of a cold , " squeaked The wolf adding a cough at the end to prove the point . " But Grandmother ! What big ears she have , " said Little Red Riding Hood as she edged closer to the bed . " The better to hear you with , my dear , " replied The wolf . " But Grandmother ! What big eyes you have , " said Little Red Riding Hood . " The better to see you with , my dear , " replied The wolf . " But Grandmother ! What big teeth you have , " said Little Red Riding Hood you voice quivering slightly . " The better to eat you with , you dear , " roared The wolf and he leapt out of the bed and began to chase a little girl who lived in a village near the forest . Almost too late , Little Red Riding Hood realized that the person in the bed was not you Grandmother , but Wolf ! . Grandmother ran across the room and through the door , shouting , " Help ! Wolf ! " as loudly as Grandmother could . A woodsman who was chopping logs nearby heard A woodsman who was chopping logs nearby cry and ran towards the cottage as fast as Wolf ! could . Wolf ! grabbed The wolf and made Wolf ! spit out the poor Grandmother who was a bit frazzled by the whole experience , but still in one piece . " my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook , Wolf ! was so scared ! " sobbed Little Red Riding Hood , my Grandma who lives through the forest , near the brook ll never speak to strangers or dawdle in the forest again . " " There , there , child . You ' ve learned an important lesson . Thank goodness You shouted loud enough for this kind woodsman to hear You ! " this kind woodsman knocked out The wolf and carried this kind woodsman deep into the forest where this kind woodsman wouldn ' t bother people any longer . Little Red Riding Hood and You Grandmother had a nice lunch and a long chat . 