There were once a man a man and a woman who had long in vain wished for a child a woman who had long in vain wished for a child . At length a woman hoped that God was about to grant a woman desire . These people had a little window at the back of These people house from which a splendid garden could be seen , which was full of the most beautiful flowers and herbs . It was , however , surrounded by a high wall , and no one dared to go into it because it belonged to an enchantress an enchantress , who had great power and was dreaded by all the world . One day a woman was standing by this window and looking down into the garden , when a woman saw a bed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion ( rapunzel ) , and it looked so fresh and green that a woman longed for it , a woman quite pined away , and began to look pale and miserable . Then a woman her husband was alarmed , and asked : " What ails you , dear wife ? " " Ah , " a woman replied , " if a woman can " t eat some of the rampion , which is in the garden behind you house , I shall die . " a man The man , who loved her a woman , thought : " Sooner than let your your wife die , bring your wife some of the rampion yourself , let it cost what it will . " At twilight , a man clambered down over the wall into the garden of an enchantress , hastily clutched a handful of rampion , and took it to a man your wife . an enchantress at once made an enchantress a salad of it , and ate it greedily . It tasted so good to an enchantress — so very good , that the next day an enchantress longed for it three times as much as before . If a man was to have any rest , an enchantress her husband must once more descend into the garden . In the gloom of evening therefore , a man let a man down again ; but when a man had clambered down the wall a man was terribly afraid , for a man saw the enchantress standing before him a man . " How can you dare , " said you with angry look , " descend into I garden and steal I rampion like a thief ? You shall suffer for it ! " " Ah , " answered You , " let mercy take the place of justice , I only made up I mind to do it out of necessity . I your wife saw your rampion from the window , and felt such a longing for it that your wife would have died if your wife had not got some to eat . " Then an enchantress allowed an enchantress anger to be softened , and said to I : " If the case be as you say , I will allow you to take away with you as much rampion as you will , only I make one condition , you must give I the child which your wife will bring into the world your your wife will bring into the world ; it shall be well treated , and I will care for it like a mother . " The man in his terror I terror consented to everything , and when a woman was brought to bed , an enchantress appeared at once , gave the child which your wife will bring into the world the name of Rapunzel , and took it away with a woman . Rapunzel grew into the most beautiful child under the sun . When Rapunzel was twelve years old , an enchantress shut Rapunzel into a tower , which lay in a forest , and had neither stairs nor door , but quite at the top was a little window . When an enchantress wanted to go in , an enchantress placed an enchantress beneath it and cried : " Rapunzel Rapunzel Rapunzel , Let down your hair to I . " Rapunzel had magnificent long hair , fine as spun gold , and when Rapunzel heard the voice of the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses Rapunzel unfastened Rapunzel braided tresses , wound your round one of the hooks of the window above , and then the hair fell twenty ells down , and the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses climbed up by it . After a year or two , it came to pass that the king " s son rode through the forest and passed by the tower . Then he heard a song , which was so charming that he stood still and listened . This was Rapunzel Rapunzel Rapunzel solitude passed Rapunzel time in letting Rapunzel sweet voice resound . The king " s son wanted to climb up to her , and looked for the door of the tower , but none was to be found . son wanted to climb up to her Rapunzel , and looked for the door of the tower , but none was to be found . The king " s son wanted to climb up to her , and looked for the door of the tower , but none was to be found . rode home , but the singing had so deeply touched The king " s son wanted to climb up to her , and looked for the door of the tower , but none was to be found . heart , that every day The king " s son wanted to climb up to her , and looked for the door of the tower , but none was to be found . went out into the forest and listened to it . Once when The king " s son wanted to climb up to her , and looked for the door of the tower , but none was to be found . was thus standing behind a tree , The king " s son wanted to climb up to her , and looked for the door of the tower , but none was to be found . saw that an enchantress came there , and The king " s son wanted to climb up to her , and looked for the door of the tower , but none was to be found . heard how an enchantress cried : " Rapunzel Rapunzel Rapunzel , Let down your hair to I . " Then Rapunzel let down the braids of Rapunzel hair , and the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses climbed up to the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses . " If that is the ladder by which one mounts , I too will try I fortune , " said I , and the next day when it began to grow dark , I went to the tower and cried : " Rapunzel Rapunzel Rapunzel , Let down your hair to I . " Immediately the hair fell down and the king " s son climbed up . At first Rapunzel was terribly frightened when a man a man , such as her eyes had never yet beheld Rapunzel eyes had never yet beheld , came to Rapunzel ; but the king " s son began to talk to her quite like a friend , and told her that his heart had been so son began to talk to her quite like a friend Rapunzel quite like a friend , and told her that son began to talk to her quite like a friend heart had been so stirred that it had let the king " s son began to talk to her quite like a friend , and told her that his heart had been so have no rest , and a man had been forced to see Rapunzel . Then Rapunzel lost Rapunzel fear , and when a man asked Rapunzel if Rapunzel would take a man for Rapunzel her husband , and Rapunzel saw that a man was young and handsome , Rapunzel thought : " a man will love I more than old Dame Gothel does " ; and she said yes , and laid her hand in a man . Rapunzel said : " I will willingly go away with you , but I do not know how to get down . Bring with you a skein of silk every time that you come , and I will weave a ladder with it , and when you is ready I will descend , and you will take I on your horse . " you agreed that until that time you should come to you every evening , for the old woman came by day . the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses remarked nothing of this , until once Rapunzel said to Rapunzel : " Tell I , Dame Gothel , how it happens that you are so much heavier for I to draw up than the young king " s the young king " s son — I is with the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses in a moment . " " Ah ! the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses , " cried the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses . " What do the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses hear you say ! the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses thought the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses had separated you from all the world , and yet you have deceived the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses ! " In the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses anger the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses clutched Rapunzel " s beautiful tresses , wrapped you twice round the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses left hand , seized a pair of scissors with the right , and snip , snap , you were cut off , and the lovely braids lay on the ground . And the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses was so pitiless that the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses took poor Rapunzel into a desert where the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses had to live in great grief and misery . On the same day that the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses cast out Rapunzel , however , the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses fastened the braids of hair , which the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses had cut off , to the hook of the window , and when the young king " s " s son came and cried : " Rapunzel Rapunzel Rapunzel , Let down your hair to the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses . " the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses let the hair down . the young king " s " s son ascended , but instead of finding the young king " s dearest Rapunzel , the young king " s found the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses the young king " s with wicked and venomous looks . " Aha ! " dearest Rapunzel cried mockingly , " you would fetch your your dearest , but the beautiful bird sits no longer singing in the nest ; the cat has got it , and will scratch out your eyes as well . Rapunzel is lost to you ; you will never see Rapunzel again . " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . son was beside himself with pain your dearest with pain , and in son was beside himself with pain despair son was beside himself with pain leapt down from the tower . " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . escaped with " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . life , but the thorns into which " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . fell pierced " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . eyes . Then " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . wandered quite blind about the forest , ate nothing but roots and berries , and did naught but lament and weep over the loss of " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . his dearest wife . Thus " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . roamed about in misery for some years , and at length came to the desert where Rapunzel Rapunzel the twins to which she had given birth , a boy and a girl Rapunzel had given birth , a boy and a girl , lived in wretchedness . " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . heard a voice , and it seemed so familiar to " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . that " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . went towards it , and when " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . approached , Rapunzel knew " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . and fell on " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . neck and wept . Two of her tears wetted " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . eyes and the twins to which she had given birth , a boy and a girl grew clear again , and " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . could see with the twins to which she had given birth , a boy and a girl as before . " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . led Rapunzel to " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . kingdom where " The king " s son was beside himself with pain , and in his despair he leapt down from the tower . was joyfully received , and the twins to which she had given birth , a boy and a girl lived for a long time afterwards , happy and contented . 