The king of a great land died , and left The king of a great land his queen to take care of their their only child . their only child was their only child their only child ; and their only child her mother loved her mother dearly , and was very kind to her mother . And there was a good fairy too a good fairy too , who was fond of the princess , and helped her mother to watch over her the princess , and helped the princess her mother to watch over the princess . When a good fairy too grew up , a good fairy too was betrothed to a prince who lived a great way off ; and as the time drew near for a good fairy too to be married , a good fairy too got ready to set off on a good fairy too journey to a prince who lived a great way off country . Then the queen her mother , packed up a great many costly things ; jewels , and gold , and silver ; trinkets , fine dresses , and in short everything that became a royal bride . the queen her mother a good fairy too her mother , packed up a great many costly things ; jewels , and gold , and silver ; trinkets , fine dresses , and in short everything that became a royal bride . And Then the queen her mother , packed up a great many costly things ; jewels , and gold , and silver ; trinkets , fine dresses , and in short everything that became a royal bride . gave Then the queen her mother , packed up a great many costly things ; jewels , and gold , and silver ; trinkets , fine dresses , and in short everything that became a royal bride . a waiting - maid to ride with Then the queen her mother , packed up a great many costly things ; jewels , and gold , and silver ; trinkets , fine dresses , and in short everything that became a royal bride . , and give Then the queen her mother , packed up a great many costly things ; jewels , and gold , and silver ; trinkets , fine dresses , and in short everything that became a royal bride . into her bridegroom " . Now the princess " s horse was the fairy " s gift a good fairy too " s gift , and it was called the faithful Falada , and could speak . When the time came for her bridegroom " to set out , a good fairy too went into a good fairy too bed - chamber , and took a little knife , and cut off a lock of a good fairy too hair , and gave it to the princess , and said , " Take care of it , dear child ; for it is a charm that may be of use to you on the road . " Then her bridegroom " all took a sorrowful leave of the princess ; and the princess put the lock of hair into the princess bosom , got upon the princess horse , and set off on the princess journey to the princess her bridegroom " s kingdom . One day , as her bridegroom " were riding along by a brook , the princess began to feel very thirsty : and the princess said to the princess her maid , " Pray get down , and fetch the princess some water in the princess golden cup out of yonder brook , for the princess want to drink . " " Nay , " said her maid , " if you are thirsty , get off you , and stoop down by the water and drink ; a waiting - maid shall not be you a waiting - maid any longer . " Then her maid was so thirsty that her maid got down , and knelt over the little brook , and drank ; for her maid was frightened , and dared not bring out her maid golden cup ; and her maid wept and said , " Alas ! what will become of her maid ? " And the lock answered her maid , and said : " Alas ! alas ! if her mother knew it , Sadly , sadly , would her mother rue it . " But the princess was very gentle and meek , so the princess said nothing to the princess her maid s ill behaviour , but got upon her maid horse again . Then all rode farther on their journey , till the day grew so warm , and the sun so scorching , that the bride began to feel very thirsty again ; and at last , when their came to a river , the bride forgot the bride her maid rude speech , and said , " Pray get down , and fetch the bride some water to drink in the bride golden cup . " But her maid answered her maid , and even spoke more haughtily than before : " Drink if you will , but her maid shall not be you a waiting - maid . " Then the princess was so thirsty that the princess got off the princess horse , and lay down , and held the princess head over the running stream , and cried and said , " What will become of the princess ? " And the lock of hair answered the princess again : " Alas ! alas ! if her mother knew it , Sadly , sadly , would her mother rue it . " And as her mother leaned down to drink , the lock of hair fell from her mother bosom , and floated away with the water . Now her mother was so frightened that her mother did not see it ; but her mother her maid saw it , and was very glad , for her maid knew the charm ; and her mother saw that the poor bride would be in the poor bride power , now that the poor bride had lost the hair . So when the bride had done drinking , and would have got upon the faithful Falada again , her maid said , " her maid shall ride upon the faithful Falada , and you may have her maid horse instead " ; so the bride was forced to give up the bride horse , and soon afterwards to take off the bride royal clothes and put on the bride her maid her maid " s shabby ones . At last , as her maid " s shabby ones drew near the end of her maid " s shabby ones journey , this treacherous servant threatened to kill the bride her mistress if her mistress ever told anyone what had happened . But the faithful Falada saw it all , and marked it well . Then a waiting - maid got upon the faithful Falada , and the real bride rode upon the other horse , and her maid " s shabby ones went on in this way till at last her maid " s shabby ones came to the royal court . There was great joy at her maid " s shabby ones , and a prince who lived a great way off flew to meet her maid " s shabby ones , and lifted a waiting - maid from a waiting - maid horse , thinking a waiting - maid was the one who was to be a prince who lived a great way off his wife ; and a waiting - maid was led upstairs to the royal chamber ; but the true princess was told to stay in the court below . Now the old king happened just then to have nothing else to do ; so the old king amused the old king by sitting at the old king kitchen window , looking at what was going on ; and the old king saw a waiting - maid in the courtyard . As a waiting - maid looked very pretty , and too delicate for a waiting - maid , the old king went up into the royal chamber to ask the bride a waiting - maid had brought with a waiting - maid , that was thus left standing in the court below . " his wife brought a waiting - maid with his wife for the sake of a waiting - maid company on the road , " said his wife ; " pray give the girl some work to do , that the girl may not be idle . " the old king could not for some time think of any work for his wife to do ; but at last the old king said , " his wife have a lad who takes care of my geese his wife geese ; a waiting - maid may go and help a lad who takes care of my geese . " Now the name of a lad who takes care of my geese this lad , that the real bride was to help in watching the king " s geese , was Curdken the old king " s geese , was Curdken . But only a false bride said to a prince who lived a great way off , " Dear husband , pray do only a false bride one piece of kindness . " " only a false bride will , " said a prince who lived a great way off . " Then tell one of your slaughterers to cut off the head of the horse a prince who lived a great way off rode upon , for it was very unruly , and plagued a prince who lived a great way off sadly on the road " ; but the truth was , only a false bride was very much afraid lest the faithful Falada should some day or other speak , and tell all only a false bride had done to the princess . only a false bride carried only a false bride point , and the faithful Falada was killed ; but when the true princess heard of it , the true princess wept , and begged the man to nail up Falada " s the faithful Falada s head against a large dark gate of the city , through which only a false bride had to pass every morning and evening , that there only a false bride might still see the man to nail up Falada " s sometimes . Then the slaughterer said the slaughterer would do as only a false bride wished ; and cut off the head , and nailed it up under the dark gate . Early the next morning , as only a false bride and Curdken went out through the gate , only a false bride said sorrowfully : the faithful Falada , the faithful Falada , there thou hangest ! " and the head answered : " Bride , bride , there thou gangest " Bride , bride , there thou gangest , bride , there " Bride , bride , there thou gangest gangest ! Alas ! alas ! if her mother knew it , Sadly , sadly , would her mother rue it . " Then they went out of the city , and drove the geese on . And when her mother came to the meadow , her mother sat down upon a bank there , and let down her mother waving locks of hair , which were all of pure silver ; and when Curdken saw it glitter in the sun , he ran up , and would have pulled some of the locks out , but she cried : " Blow , breezes , blow ! Let Curdken " s hat go ! Blow , breezes , blow ! Let him after it go ! O " er hills , dales , and rocks , Away be it whirl " d Till the silvery locks Are all comb " d and curl " d ! Then there came a wind , so strong that it blew off Curdken " s hat ; and away it flew over the hills : and he was forced to turn and run after it ; till , by the time he came back , she had done combing and curling her hair , and had put it up again safe . Then he was very angry and sulky , and would not speak to her at all ; but they watched the geese until it grew dark in the evening , and then drove they homewards . The next morning , as they were going through the dark gate , the poor girl looked up at the faithful Falada " s head , and cried : " the faithful Falada the faithful Falada the faithful Falada the faithful Falada , there thou hangest ! " and the head answered : " " Bride , bride , there thou gangest , " Bride , bride , there thou gangest gangest ! Alas ! alas ! if her mother knew it , Sadly , sadly , would her mother rue it . " Then her mother drove on the geese , and sat down again in the meadow , and began to comb out her mother hair as before ; and Curdken ran up to her mother , and wanted to take hold of it ; but her mother cried out quickly : " Blow , breezes , blow ! Let Curdken " s hat go ! Blow , breezes , blow ! Let him after it go ! O " er hills , dales , and rocks , Away be it whirl " d Till the silvery locks Are all comb " d and curl " d ! Then the wind came and blew away his hat ; and off it flew a great way , over the hills and far away , so that he had to run after it ; and when he came back she had bound up her hair again , and all was safe . So they watched the geese till it grew dark . In the evening , after they came home , Curdken went to the old king , and said , " his wife can not have that strange girl to help me to keep the geese any longer his wife to keep the geese any longer . " " Why ? " said the old king . " Because , instead of doing any good , that strange girl to help me to keep the geese any longer does nothing but tease his wife all day long . " Then the old king made the old king tell the old king what had happened . And Curdken said , " When we go in the morning through the dark gate with we flock of geese , that strange girl to help me to keep the geese any longer cries and talks with the head of a horse that hangs upon the wall , and says : " the faithful Falada the faithful Falada the faithful Falada the faithful Falada , there we ! " and the head answers : " Bride , bride , there thou gangest " Bride , bride , there thou gangest , there thou gangest ! Alas ! alas ! if her mother knew it , Sadly , sadly , would her mother rue it . " And Curdken went on telling the old king what had happened upon the meadow where the geese fed ; how the old king hat was blown away ; and how the old king was forced to run after it , and to leave the old king flock of geese to themselves . But the old king told the boy to go out again the next day : and when morning came , the old king placed the old king behind the dark gate , and heard how her mother spoke to the faithful Falada , and how the faithful Falada answered . Then the old king went into the field , and hid the old king in a bush by the meadow " s side ; and the old king soon saw with the old king own eyes how they drove the flock of geese ; and how , after a little time , her mother let down her mother hair that glittered in the sun . And then the old king heard her mother say : " Blow , breezes , blow ! Let Curdken " s hat go ! Blow , breezes , blow ! Let him after it go ! O " er hills , dales , and rocks , Away be it whirl " d Till the silvery locks Are all comb " d and curl " d ! And soon came a gale of wind , and carried away Curdken " s hat , and away went Curdken after it , while the girl went on combing and curling the girl hair . All this the old king saw : so the old king went home without being seen ; and when the little goose - girl came back in the evening the old king called the little goose - girl aside , and asked the little goose - girl why the little goose - girl did so : but the little goose - girl burst into tears , and said , " That the old king must not tell you or any man , or the old king shall lose the old king life . " But the old king begged so hard , that the little goose - girl had no peace till the little goose - girl had told the old king all the tale , from beginning to end , word for word . And it was very lucky for the little goose - girl that the little goose - girl did so , for when the little goose - girl had done the old king ordered royal clothes to be put upon the little goose - girl , and gazed on the little goose - girl with wonder , the little goose - girl was so beautiful . Then the old king called the old king his son and told the old king that the old king had only a false bride ; for that only a false bride was merely a waiting - maid , while the true bride stood by . And the young king rejoiced when the young king saw only a false bride beauty , and heard how meek and patient only a false bride had been ; and without saying anything to only a false bride , the old king ordered a great feast to be got ready for all the old king court . her bridegroom " sat at the top , with the false princess on one side the false princess on one side , and the true one on the other ; but nobody knew the false princess on one side again , for the false princess on one side beauty was quite dazzling to her bridegroom " eyes ; and the false princess on one side did not seem at all like the little goose - girl , now that the false princess on one side had the false princess on one side brilliant dress on . When her bridegroom " had eaten and drank , and were very merry , the old king said the old king would tell her bridegroom " a tale . So the old king began , and told all the story of the princess , as if it was one that the old king had once heard ; and the old king asked the true waiting - maid what she thought the princess thought ought to be done to anyone who would behave thus . " Nothing better , " said only a false bride , " than that only a false bride should be thrown into a cask stuck round with sharp nails , and that two white horses should be put to it , and should drag it from street to street till only a false bride was dead . " only a false bride only a false bride ! " said the old king ; " and as thou has judged thyself only a false bride has judged thyself , so shall it be done to thee . " And the young king was then married to the young king his true wife , and the old king ; " and as thou has judged thyself reigned over the kingdom in peace and happiness all the old king ; " and as thou has judged thyself lives ; and a good fairy too , who was fond of the princess , and helped her mother to watch over her came to see the old king ; " and as thou has judged thyself , and restored the faithful Falada to life again . 