In a village dwelt a poor old woman a poor old woman , who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them them . So a poor old woman made a fire on a poor old woman hearth , and that it might burn the quicker , a poor old woman lighted it with a handful of straw . When a poor old woman was emptying the beans into the pan , one dropped without a poor old woman observing it , and lay on the ground beside a straw , and soon afterwards a burning coal from the fire leapt down to the two . Then the straw began and said : " Dear friends , from whence do you come here ? " The coal replied : " I fortunately sprang out of the fire , and if I had not escaped by sheer force , my death would have been certain , — I should have been burnt to ashes . " The bean said : " I too have escaped with a whole skin , but if a poor old woman had got me into the pan , I should have been made into broth without any mercy , like my comrades . " " And would a better fate have fallen to my lot ? " said the straw . " a poor old woman has destroyed all my brethren in fire and smoke ; a poor old woman seized sixty of my comrades at once , and took my comrades lives . I luckily slipped through a poor old woman fingers . " " But what are my comrades to do now ? " said the coal . " the bean , " that as we have so fortunately escaped death , we should keep together like good companions , and lest a new mischance should overtake us here , we should go away together , and repair to a foreign country think , " answered the bean , " that as we have so fortunately escaped death , we should keep together like good companions , and lest a new mischance should overtake us here , we should go away together , and repair to a foreign country good companions , and lest a new mischance should overtake us here , we should go away together , and repair to a foreign country . " The proposition pleased the two others , and the two others set out on the two others way together . Soon , however , the two others came to a little brook , and as there was no bridge or foot - plank , the two others did not know how the two others were to get over it . The straw hit on a good idea , and said : " I will lay myself straight across , and then the bean , " that as we have so fortunately escaped death , we should keep together like good companions , and lest a new mischance should overtake us here , we should go away together , and repair to a foreign country can walk over on me as on a bridge . " The straw therefore stretched itself from one bank to the other , and the coal , who was of an impetuous disposition , tripped quite boldly on to the newly - built bridge . But when she had reached the middle , and heard the water rushing beneath she , she was after all , afraid , and stood still , and ventured no farther . The straw , however , began to burn , broke in two pieces , and fell into the stream . The coal slipped after she , hissed when she got into the water , and breathed she last . The bean , who had prudently stayed behind on the shore , could not but laugh at the event , was unable to stop , and laughed so heartily that she burst . It would have been all over with she , likewise , if , by good fortune , a tailor who was travelling in search of work , had not sat down to rest by the brook . As a tailor who was travelling in search of work had a compassionate heart a tailor who was travelling in search of work pulled out a tailor who was travelling in search of work needle and thread , and sewed she together . The bean thanked him most prettily , but as the tailor used black thread , all beans since then have a black seam . 