Once in summer - time the bear and the wolf were walking in the forest , and the bear heard a bird singing so beautifully that the wolf said : " Brother wolf , what bird is it that sings so well ? " " That is the King of birds , " said the wolf , " before whom we must bow down . " In reality the bird was the willow - wren . " IF that " s the case , " said the bear , " I should very much like to see the willow - wren royal palace ; come , take me thither . " " That is not done quite as you seem to think , " said the wolf ; " you must wait until lady Queen comes , " Soon afterwards , lady Queen arrived with some food in lady Queen beak , and the lord King came too , and you began to feed you their young ones . The bear would have liked to go at once , but the wolf held the wolf back by the sleeve , and said : " No , you must wait until the lord the lord and lady Queen lady Queen have gone away again . " So you took stock of the hole where the nest lay , and trotted away . The bear , however , could not rest until the wolf had seen the royal palace , and when a short time had passed , went to it again . The King and Queen the lord King and lady Queen had just flown out , so the lord King peeped in and saw five or six young ones lying there . " Is that the royal palace ? " cried the bear ; " it is a wretched palace , and you are not the lord King " s children , disreputable children are disreputable children ! " When the young wrens heard that , they were frightfully angry , and screamed : " No , that you are not ! you Our parents are Our parents ! Bear , disreputable children will have to pay for disreputable children ! " The bear and the wolf grew uneasy , and turned back and went into disreputable children holes . The young willow - wrens , however , continued to cry and scream , and when Our parents again brought food Our parents said : " We will not so much as touch one fly " s leg , no , not if we were dying of hunger , until you have settled whether respectable children are respectable children or not ; the bear has been here and has insulted we ! " Then the lord King said : " Be easy , the lord King shall be punished , " and the lord King at once flew lady Queen to the bear " s cave , and called in : " Old Growler , why have you insulted the lord King respectable children ? you shall suffer for it — we will punish you by a bloody war . " Thus war was announced to the Bear , and all four - footed animals were summoned to take part in it , oxen , asses , cows , deer , and every other animal the earth contained . And the willow - wren summoned everything which flew in the air , not only birds , large and small , but midges , and hornets , bees and flies had to come . When the time came for the war to begin , the willow - wren sent out spies to discover who was the enemy " spies to discover who was the enemy " s commander - in - chief . The gnat , who was the most crafty , flew into the forest where the enemy was assembled , and hid the enemy beneath a leaf of the tree where the password was to be announced . There stood the bear , and , the willow - wren sent out spies to discover who was the enemy " called Fox before , the willow - wren sent out spies to discover who was the enemy " and said : " Fox , you are the most cunning of all animals , you shall be general and lead us . " " Good , " said Fox , " but what signal shall us agree upon ? " No one knew that , so Fox said : " I have a fine long bushy tail , which almost looks like a plume of red feathers . When I lift my tail up quite high , all is going well , and you must charge ; but if I let it hang down , run away as fast as you can . " When the gnat had heard that , you flew away again , and revealed everything , down to the minutest detail , to the willow - wren . When day broke , and the battle was to begin , all the four - footed animals came running up with such a noise that the earth trembled . The willow - wren with his army the willow - wren army also came flying through the air with such a humming , and whirring , and swarming that every one was uneasy and afraid , and on both sides they advanced against each other . But the willow - wren sent down the hornet , with orders to settle beneath Fox " s tail , and sting with all the willow - wren might . When Fox felt the first string , Fox started so that Fox lifted one leg , from pain , but Fox bore it , and still kept Fox tail high in the air ; at the second sting , Fox was forced to put it down for a moment ; at the third , Fox could hold out no longer , screamed , and put Fox tail between Fox legs . When the animals saw that , they thought all was lost , and began to flee , each into Fox hole , and the birds had won the battle . Then The King and Queen the lord King and lady Queen flew home to The King and Queen respectable children and cried : " children , rejoice , eat and drink to you heart " s content , children have won the battle ! " But the young wrens said : " children will not eat yet , the bear must come to the nest , and beg for pardon and say that honourable children are honourable children , before children will do that . " Then the willow - wren flew to the bear " s hole and cried : " Growler , you are to come to the nest to the willow - wren respectable children , and beg respectable children pardon , or else every rib of you body shall be broken . " So the bear crept thither in the greatest fear , and begged their pardon . And now at last the young wrens were satisfied , and sat down together and ate and drank , and made merry till quite late into the night . 