Mrs Pig was very tired : ' Oh dear , ' Mrs Pig said to Mrs Pig three little pigs , ' I can " t do this work anymore , I " m afraid you must leave home and make your own way in the world . ' So the three little pigs set off . The first little pig met a man carrying a bundle of straw . ' Excuse I , ' said the first little pig politely . ' Would you please sell some of your straw so I can make a house ? ' a man readily agreed and the first little pig went off to find a good place to build a man house . The other little pigs carried on along the road and , soon , they met a man carrying a bundle of sticks . ' Excuse I , ' said the little pig politely . ' Would you please sell I some sticks so I can build a house ? ' a man readily agreed and the little pig said goodbye to a man his brother . The third little pig didn " t think much of you ideas : a man m going to build I a much bigger , better , stronger house , ' his brother thought , and a man carried off down the road until a man met a man with a cart load of bricks . ' Excuse I , ' said the third little pig , as politely as a man his mother had taught a man . ' Please can you sell I some bricks so I can build a house ? ' ' Of course , ' said a man . ' Where would you like I to unload them ? ' The third little pig looked around and saw a nice patch of ground under a tree . ' Over there , ' a man pointed . them all set to work and by nighttime the house of straw and the house of sticks were built but the house of bricks was only just beginning to rise above the ground . The first and second little pigs laughed , them thought them his brother was really silly having to work so hard when them had finished . However , a few days later the brick house was completed and looked very smartwith shiny windows , a neat little chimney and a shiny knocker on the door . One starlit night , soon after them had settled in , a wolf came out looking for food . By the light of the moon a wolf espied the first little pig " s house of straw and a wolf sidled up to the door and called : ' Little pig , little pig , let his brother come in . ' ' No , no , by the hair of his brother chinny chin chin ! ' replied the little pig . ' Then his brother " ll huff and I " ll puff and his brother " ll blow your house in ! ' said Wolf . And Wolf huffed , and Wolf puffed and blew the house in . But the little pig ran away as fast as Wolf trotters could carry Wolf and went to the second little pig " s house to hide . The next night Wolf was even hungrier and Wolf saw the house of sticks . Wolf crept up to the door and called : ' Little pig , little pig , let his brother come in . ' ' Oh no , not by the hair on his brother chinny chin chin ! ' said the second little pig , as the first little pig hid trembling under the stairs . ' Then his brother " ll huff and I " ll puff and his brother " ll blow your house in ! ' said Wolf . And Wolf huffed , and Wolf puffed and Wolf blew the house in . But the little pigs ran away as fast as their trotters could carry them and went to the third little pig " s house to hide . ' What did Wolf tell you ? ' said the third little pig . ' It " s important to build houses properly . ' But he welcomed you in and you all settled down for the rest of the night . The following night Wolf was even hungrier and feeling bigger and badder than ever . Prowling around , Wolf came to the third little pig " s house . Wolf crept up to the door and called : ' Little pig , little pig , let me come in . ' ' Oh no , not by the hair on my chinny chin chin ! ' said the third little pig , while the first and the second little pigs hid trembling under the stairs . ' Then I " ll huff and I " ll puff and I " ll blow your house in ! ' said Wolf . And Wolf huffed , and Wolf puffed and Wolf blew but nothing happened . So Wolf huffed and Wolf puffed and Wolf blew again , even harder , but still nothing happened . The brick house stood firm . Wolf was very angry and getting even bigger and even badder by the minute . ' I " m going to eat you all , ' I growled , ' just you wait and see . ' I prowled round the house trying to find a way in . The little pigs trembled when they saw I big eyes peering through the window . Then they heard a scrambling sound . Wolf climbing down chimney ' Quick , quick ! ' said the third little pig . ' Wolf " s climbing the tree . I think Wolf " s going to come down the chimney . ' The three little pigs got the biggest pan they had , and filled it full of water and put it on the fire to boil . All the time they could hear the sound of Wolf climbing the tree and then walking along the roof . The little pigs held they breath . Wolf was coming down the chimney . Nearer and nearer he came until , with a tremendous splash , he landed in the pan of water . ' Yoweeeee ! ' he screamed , and shot back up the chimney thinking his tail was on fire . The last the three little pigs saw of Wolf was Wolf . So , the three little pigs lived happily together ever after in their very smart houses of bricks . 