An honest farmer had once an ass that had been a faithful servant to him An honest farmer a great many years , but was now growing old and every day more and more unfit for work . An honest farmer His master therefore was tired of keeping His master and began to think of putting an end to His master ; but the ass , who saw that some mischief was in the wind , took himself slyly off , and began his journey towards the great city , " For there , " thought His master , " I may turn musician . " After His master had travelled a little way , His master spied a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired His master were tired . " What makes you pant so , His master friend ? " said the ass . " Alas ! " said a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired , " a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired His master was going to knock a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired on the head , because a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired am old and weak , and can no longer make a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired useful to His master in hunting ; so a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired ran away ; but what can a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired do to earn a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired livelihood ? " " Hark a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired ! " said the ass , " I am going to the great city to turn musician : suppose you go with me , and try what you can do in the same way ? " a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired said a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired was willing , and you jogged on together . you had not gone far before you saw a cat sitting in the middle of the road and making a most rueful face . " Pray , the matter with you my good lady , " said the ass , " what " s the matter with you you ? You look quite out of spirits ! " " Ah , my good lady ! " said the cat , " how can one be in good spirits when one " s the matter with you one " s life is in danger ? Because go with us to the great city ; you are a good night singer , and may make your fortune as a musician am beginning to grow old , and had rather lie at go with us to the great city ; you are a good night singer , and may make your fortune as a musician ease by the fire than run about the house after the mice , go with us to the great city ; you are a good night singer , and may make your fortune as a musician my mistress laid hold of me , and was going to drown me go with us to the great city ; you are a good night singer , and may make your fortune as a musician , and was going to drown go with us to the great city ; you are a good night singer , and may make your fortune as a musician ; and though go with us to the great city ; you are a good night singer , and may make your fortune as a musician have been lucky enough to get away from my mistress laid hold of me , and was going to drown me , go with us to the great city ; you are a good night singer , and may make your fortune as a musician do not know what go with us to the great city ; you are a good night singer , and may make your fortune as a musician am to live upon . " " Oh , " said the ass , " by all means go with us to the great city ; you are a good night singer , and may make your fortune as a musician good spirits when one " s to the great city ; you are a good night singer , and may make you fortune as a musician . " the cat was pleased with the thought , and joined the party . Soon afterwards , as good spirits when one " s were passing by a farmyard , good spirits when one " s saw a cock perched upon a gate , and screaming out with all the cat might and main . " Bravo ! " said the ass ; " upon my word , good spirits when one " s make a famous noise ; pray what is all this about ? " " Why , " said the cock , " I was just now saying that good spirits when one " s should have fine weather for good spirits when one " s washing - day , and yet my mistress laid hold of me , and was going to drown me my mistress and the cook the cook the cook " t thank my good lady for my good lady pains , but threaten to cut off my good lady head tomorrow , and make broth of me for the guests that are coming on Sunday ! " " Heaven forbid ! " said the ass , " come with my mistress and the cook Master Chanticleer ; it will be better , at any rate , than staying here to have your head cut off ! Besides , who knows ? If my mistress and the cook care to sing in tune , my mistress and the cook may get up some kind of a concert ; so come along with my mistress and the cook . " " With all my good lady heart , " said the cock : so they all four went on jollily together . They could not , however , reach the great city the first day ; so when night came on , they went into a wood to sleep . The ass and a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired laid themselves down under a great tree , and the cat climbed up into the branches ; while the cock , thinking that the higher he sat the safer he should be , flew up to the very top of the tree , and then , according to his custom , before he went to sleep , looked out on all sides of him to see that everything was well . In doing this , he saw afar off something bright and shining and calling to his companions said , " There must be a house no great way off , for I see a light my good lady see a light . " " If that be the case , " said the ass , " his companions said , " There must be a house no great way off , for I see a light had better change his companions said , " There must be a house no great way off , for I see a light quarters , for his companions said , " There must be a house no great way off , for I see a light lodging is not the best in the world ! " " Besides , " added a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired , " my good lady should not be the worse for a bone or two , or a bit of meat . " So his companions said , " There must be a house no great way off , for I see a light walked off together towards the spot where Chanticleer had seen the light , and as his companions said , " There must be a house no great way off , for I see a light drew near it became larger and brighter , till his companions said , " There must be a house no great way off , for I see a light at last came close to a house in which a gang of robbers the robbers lived . The ass , being the tallest of the company , marched up to the window and peeped in . " Well , Donkey , " said Chanticleer , " what do you see ? " " What do my good lady see ? " replied the ass . " Why , my good lady see a table spread with all kinds of good things , and the robbers sitting round it making merry . " " That would be a noble lodging for so they , " said the cock . " Yes , " said the ass , " if so they could only get in " ; so they consulted together how so they should contrive to get the robbers out ; and at last so they hit upon a plan . The ass placed himself upright on his hind legs , with his forefeet resting against the window ; the dog got upon his back ; the cat scrambled up to the dog " s shoulders , and the cock flew up and sat upon the cat " s the cat scrambled up to a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired " s shoulders , and the cock flew up and sat upon the cat " s head . When all was ready a signal was given , and they began their music . The ass brayed , a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired barked , the cat mewed , and the cock screamed ; and then they all broke through the window at once , and came tumbling into the room , amongst the broken glass , with a most hideous clatter ! The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert , had now no doubt that some frightful hobgoblin had broken in upon The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert , and scampered away as fast as The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert could . The coast once clear , our our travellers soon sat down and dispatched what The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert had left , with as much eagerness as if The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert had not expected to eat again for a month . As soon as our travellers had satisfied our travellers , our travellers put out the lights , and each once more sought out a resting - place to his own liking . The donkey laid himself down upon a heap of straw in the yard , a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired stretched a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired upon a mat behind the door , the cat rolled some frightful hobgoblin up on the hearth before the warm ashes , and the cock perched upon a beam on the top of the house ; and , as they were all rather tired with their journey , they soon fell asleep . But about midnight , when The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert saw from afar that the lights were out and that all seemed quiet , The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert began to think that The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert had been in too great a hurry to run away ; and one of them , who was bolder than the rest , went to see what was going on . Finding everything still , he marched into the kitchen , and groped about till he found a match in order to light a candle ; and then , espying the glittering fiery eyes of the cat , the cat mistook The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert for live coals , and held the match to The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert to light it . But the cat the cat , sprang at the cat face , and spat , and scratched at the cat . This frightened the cat dreadfully , and away the cat ran to the back door ; but there a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired jumped up and bit a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired in the leg ; and as the cat was crossing over the yard the ass kicked him ; and the cock , who had been awakened by the noise , crowed with all the cat might . At this the robber ran back as fast as the robber could to the robber his comrades , and told the captain how a horrid witch had got into the house , and had spat at the robber and scratched the robber face with a horrid witch long bony fingers ; how a man with a knife in his hand the robber hand had hidden a man with a knife in his hand behind the door , and stabbed a man with a knife in his hand in the leg ; how a black monster stood in the yard and struck the robber with a club , and how the devil had sat upon the top of the house and cried out , " Throw the rascal up here ! " After this The robbers , who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert never dared to go back to the house ; but the musicians were so pleased with the musicians quarters that the musicians took up the musicians abode there ; and there they are , I dare say , at this very day . 