There was a king who had twelve beautiful daughters twelve beautiful daughters . twelve beautiful daughters slept in twelve beds all in one room ; and when twelve beautiful daughters went to bed , the doors were shut and locked up ; but every morning twelve beautiful daughters shoes were found to be quite worn through as if twelve beautiful daughters had been danced in all night ; and yet nobody could find out how it happened , or where twelve beautiful daughters had been . Then a king who had twelve beautiful daughters made it known to all the land , that if any person could discover the secret , and find out where it was that the princesses danced in the night , a king who had twelve beautiful daughters should have the one a king who had twelve beautiful daughters liked best for a king who had twelve beautiful daughters his wife , and should be king after his death a king who had twelve beautiful daughters death ; but whoever tried and did not succeed , after three days and nights , should be put to death . A king " s son soon came . A king " s son soon came . was well entertained , and in the evening was taken to the chamber next to the one where the princesses lay in the princesses twelve beds . There A king " s son soon came . was to sit and watch where the princesses went to dance ; and , in order that nothing might pass without A king " s son soon came . hearing it , the door of A king " s son soon came . chamber was left open . But the king " s son soon fell asleep ; and when he awoke in the morning he found that the princesses had all been dancing , for the soles of their shoes A king " s son soon came . awoke in the morning he found that the princesses had all been dancing , for the soles of the princesses shoes were full of holes . The same thing happened the second and third night : so a king who had twelve beautiful daughters ordered a king who had twelve beautiful daughters head to be cut off . After a king who had twelve beautiful daughters came several others ; but several others had all the same luck , and all lost several others lives in the same manner . Now it chanced that an old soldier an old soldier , who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer , passed through the country where a king who had twelve beautiful daughters reigned : and as an old soldier was travelling through a wood , an old soldier met an old woman an old woman , who asked him where he was going an old soldier where an old soldier was going . " the soldier hardly know where the soldier am going , or what the soldier had better do , " said the soldier ; " but the soldier think the soldier should like very well to find out where it is that the princesses dance , and then in time the soldier might be a king who had twelve beautiful daughters . " " Well , " said the old dame , " that is no very hard task : only take care not to drink any of the wine which one of the princesses will bring to the soldier in the evening ; and as soon as the old dame leaves the soldier pretend to be fast asleep . " Then the old dame gave the soldier a cloak , and said , " As soon as you put that on you will become invisible , and you will then be able to follow the princesses wherever the princesses go . " When the soldier heard all this good counsel , the soldier determined to try the soldier luck : so the soldier went to a king who had twelve beautiful daughters , and said the soldier was willing to undertake the task . the soldier was as well received as several others had been , and a king who had twelve beautiful daughters ordered fine royal robes to be given a king who had twelve beautiful daughters ; and when the evening came a king who had twelve beautiful daughters was led to the outer chamber . Just as the soldier was going to lie down , the eldest of the princesses the princesses brought the soldier a cup of wine ; but the soldier threw it all away secretly , taking care not to drink a drop . Then the soldier laid the soldier down on the soldier bed , and in a little while began to snore very loud as if the soldier was fast asleep . When the twelve princesses heard this the twelve princesses laughed heartily ; and the eldest of the princesses said , " This fellow too might have done a wiser thing than lose This fellow life in this way ! " Then the twelve princesses rose up and opened the twelve princesses drawers and boxes , and took out all the twelve princesses fine clothes , and dressed the twelve princesses at the glass , and skipped about as if the twelve princesses were eager to begin dancing . But the youngest said , " the youngest don " t know how it is , while you are so happy This fellow feel very uneasy ; This fellow am sure some mischance will befall us . " the youngest the youngest , " said the eldest of the princesses , " you are always afraid ; have you forgotten how many kings " sons have already watched in vain ? And as for the soldier this soldier , even if I had not given him his sleeping draught you had not given the soldier the soldier sleeping draught , the soldier would have slept soundly enough . " When the eldest of the princesses were all ready , the eldest of the princesses went and looked at the soldier ; but the soldier snored on , and did not stir hand or foot : so the eldest of the princesses thought the eldest of the princesses were quite safe ; and the eldest of the princesses went up to her own bed and clapped her hands , and the bed sank into the floor and a trap - door flew open . the soldier saw the eldest of the princesses going down through the trap - door one after another , the eldest leading the way ; and thinking he the soldier had no time to lose , the soldier jumped up , put on the cloak which an old woman had given the soldier , and followed the eldest of the princesses ; but in the middle of the stairs the soldier trod on the gown of the youngest princess , and she cried out to her sisters , " All is not right ; someone took hold of the soldier gown . " the eldest of the princesses said the eldest of the princesses , " it is nothing but a nail in the wall . " Then down the eldest of the princesses all went , and at the bottom the eldest of the princesses found the eldest of the princesses in a most delightful grove of trees ; and the leaves were all of silver , and glittered and sparkled beautifully . the soldier wished to take away some token of the place ; so the soldier broke off a little branch , and there came a loud noise from the tree . Then the youngest daughter said again , " the youngest daughter am sure all is not right — did not the eldest of the princesses hear that noise ? the eldest of the princesses never happened before . " But the eldest of the princesses said , " It is only our princes only our princes , who are shouting for joy at our approach our princes , who are shouting for joy at our approach . " Then the eldest of the princesses came to another grove of trees , where all the leaves were of gold ; and afterwards to a third , where the leaves were all glittering diamonds . And the soldier broke a branch from each ; and every time there was a loud noise , which made the youngest sister tremble with fear ; but the eldest of the princesses still said , it was only the princes , who were crying for joy the princes , who were crying for joy . So they went on till they came to a great lake ; and at the side of the lake there lay twelve little boats with twelve handsome princes in them handsome princes in them , who seemed to be waiting there for the princesses the princesses . One of the princesses went into each boat , and the soldier stepped into the same boat with the youngest . As they were rowing over the lake , the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier the youngest princess the youngest princess and the soldier the soldier said , " the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier do not know why it is , but though the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier am rowing with all the youngest princess the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier am quite tired : the boat seems very heavy today . " " It is only the heat of the weather , " said the youngest princess : " the youngest princess feel it very warm too . " On the other side of the lake stood a fine illuminated castle , from which came the merry music of horns and trumpets . There they all landed , and went into the castle , and each prince danced with each prince the youngest princess ; and the soldier the soldier , danced with them too ; and when any of the princesses had a cup of wine set by the youngest princess , each prince drank it all up , so that when the youngest princess put the cup to the youngest princess mouth it was empty . At this , too , the youngest sister was terribly frightened , but the eldest of the princesses always silenced the youngest sister . They danced on till three o " clock in the morning , and then all their shoes were worn out , so that they were obliged to leave off . the princes , who were crying for joy rowed the princes , who were crying for joy back again over the lake ( but this time the soldier placed the soldier in the boat with the eldest princess ) ; and on the opposite shore the princes , who were crying for joy took leave of each other , the princesses promising to come again the next night . When the princes , who were crying for joy came to the stairs , the soldier ran on before the princesses , and laid the soldier down ; and as the twelve sisters slowly came up very much tired , the twelve sisters heard the soldier snoring in the soldier bed ; so the twelve sisters said , " Now all is quite safe " ; then the princes , who were crying for joy undressed the princes , who were crying for joy , put away the princes , who were crying for joy fine clothes , pulled off the princes , who were crying for joy shoes , and went to bed . In the morning the soldier said nothing about what had happened , but determined to see more of this strange adventure , and went again the second and third night ; and every thing happened just as before ; the princesses danced each time till the princesses shoes were worn to pieces , and then returned home . However , on the third night the soldier carried away one of the golden cups as a token of where the soldier had been . As soon as the time came when the soldier was to declare the secret , the soldier was taken before a king who had twelve beautiful daughters with the three branches and the golden cup ; and the twelve princesses stood listening behind the door to hear what the soldier would say . And when a king who had twelve beautiful daughters asked a king who had twelve beautiful daughters . " Where do This fellow twelve daughters dance at night ? " This fellow answered , " With twelve princes in a castle under ground . " And then This fellow told a king who had twelve beautiful daughters all that had happened , and showed This fellow the three branches and the golden cup which This fellow had brought with This fellow . Then a king who had twelve beautiful daughters called for the princesses , and asked the princesses whether what the soldier said was true : and when the princesses saw that the princesses were discovered , and that it was of no use to deny what had happened , the princesses confessed it all . And a king who had twelve beautiful daughters asked the soldier which of them he would choose for his wife ; and he answered , " I am not very young , so I will have the eldest the princesses a king who had twelve beautiful daughters would choose for a king who had twelve beautiful daughters his wife ; and a king who had twelve beautiful daughters answered , " This fellow am not very young , so This fellow will have the eldest of the princesses . " — And the princesses were married that very day , and the soldier was chosen to be a king who had twelve beautiful daughters " s heir . 