Next to a great forest there lived a poor woodcutter with a poor woodcutter wife and a poor woodcutter two children . a poor woodcutter name was Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel a poor woodcutter name was and Gretel . a poor woodcutter had but little to eat , and once , when a great famine came to the land , a poor woodcutter could no longer provide even their daily bread . One evening as a poor woodcutter was lying in bed worrying about a poor woodcutter problems , a poor woodcutter sighed and said to a poor woodcutter wife , " What is to become of us ? How can us feed us children when us have nothing for us ? " " Man , do us know what ? " answered the woman . " Early tomorrow morning us will take the two children out into the thickest part of the woods , make a fire for the two children , and give each of the two children a little piece of bread , then leave the two children by themselves and go off to us work . themselves will not find themselves way back home , and us will be rid of themselves . " " No , woman , " said Man . " I will not do that . How could I bring I to abandon I my own children alone in the woods ? Wild animals would soon come and tear my own children to pieces . " " Oh , you fool , " she said , " then all four of us will starve . All you can do is to plane the boards for us coffins . " And she gave him no peace until him agreed . " But I do feel sorry for the poor children , " said Man . the two children had not been able to fall asleep because of the two children hunger , and the two children heard what the stepmother had said to the father 's . and Gretel cried bitter tears and said to Hansel , " It is over with us ! " " Be quiet , and Gretel , " said Hansel , " and do n't worry . I know what to do . " And as soon as the two children had fallen asleep , he got up , pulled on he jacket , opened the lower door , and crept outside . The moon was shining brightly , and the white pebbles in front of the house were glistening like silver coins . Hansel bent over and filled his jacket pockets with them , as many as would fit . Then he went back into the house and said , " Do n't worry , and Gretel . Sleep well . God will not forsake us . " Then he went back to bed . At daybreak , even before sunrise , the woman came and woke the two children . " Get up , you lazybones . us are going into the woods to fetch wood . " Then the woman gave each one a little piece of bread , saying , " Here is something for midday . Do n't eat it any sooner , for you 'll not get any more . " and Gretel put the bread under the woman apron , because Hansel 's pockets were full of stones . Then all together they set forth into the woods . After they had walked a little way , Hansel began stopping again and again and looking back toward the house . the father 's said , " Hansel , why are you stopping and looking back ? Pay attention now , and do n't forget your legs . " " Oh , father , " said Hansel , " I am looking at my white cat that is sitting on the roof and wants to say good - bye to me . " the woman said , " You fool , that is n't your cat . That 's the morning sun shining on the chimney . " However , Hansel had not been looking at his cat but instead had been dropping the shiny pebbles from his pocket onto the path . When they arrived in the middle of the woods , the father 's said , " they children gather some wood , and the father 's will make a fire so they wo n't freeze . " Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel and Gretel gathered together some twigs , a pile as high as a small mountainThe twigs were set afire , and when the flames were burning well , the woman said , " Lie down by the fire and rest . Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel will go into the woods to cut wood . When Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel are finished , Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel will come back and get you . " Hansel and and Gretel sat by the fire . When midday came each one ate his little piece of bread . Because Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel could hear the blows of an ax , Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel thought that the father 's was nearby . However , it was not an ax . It was a branch that his had tied to a dead tree and that the wind was beating back and forth . After Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel had sat there a long time , Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel eyes grew weary and closed , and Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel fell sound sleep . When Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel finally awoke , it was dark at night . and Gretel began to cry and said , " How will Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel get out of woods ? " Hansel comforted and Gretel , " Wait a little until the moon comes up , and then Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel 'll find the way . " After the full moon had come up , Hansel took his little sister by the hand . Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel followed the pebbles that glistened there like newly minted coins , showing Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel the way . Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel walked throughout the entire night , and as morning was breaking , Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel arrived at the father 's house . Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel knocked on the door , and when the woman opened it and saw that it was Hansel and Gretel , the woman said , " Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel wicked children , why did Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel sleep so long in the woods ? Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel thought that Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel did not want to come back . " But the father 's was overjoyed when the father 's saw the father 's his children once more , for the father 's had not wanted to leave his children alone . Not long afterward there was once again great need everywhere , and one evening his children heard the mother say to the father 's , " his children have again eaten up everything . his children have only a half loaf of bread , and then the song will be over . his children must get rid of his children . his children will take his children deeper into the woods , so his children will not find his children way out . Otherwise there will be no help for his children . " Man was very disheartened , and Man thought , " It would be better to share the last bit with his children . " But the woman would not listen to Man , scolded Man , and criticized Man . Man who says A must also say B , and because Man had given in the first time , Man had to do so the second time as well . his children were still awake and had overheard the conversation . When the two children were asleep , Hansel got up again and wanted to gather pebbles as he had done before , but the woman had locked the door , and Hansel could not get out . But he comforted his little sister and said , " Do n't cry , and Gretel . Sleep well . God will help his children . " Early the next morning the woman came and got his children from his children beds . his children received his children little pieces of bread , even less than the last time . On the way to the woods , Hansel crumbled his piece in his pocket , then often stood still , and threw crumbs onto the ground . " Hansel , why are you always stopping and looking around ? " said the father 's . " Keep walking straight ahead . " " I can see my pigeon sitting on the roof . It wants to say good - bye to me . " " Fool , " said the woman , " that is n't your pigeon . That 's the morning sun shining on the chimney . " But little by little Hansel dropped all the crumbs onto the path . the woman took them deeper into the woods than they had ever been in their whole lifetime . Once again a large fire was made , and the mother said , " Sit here , children . If you get tired you can sleep a little . We are going into the woods to cut wood . We will come and get you in the evening when We are finished . " When it was midday and Gretel shared and Gretel bread with Hansel , who had scattered his piece along the path . Then they fell asleep , and evening passed , but no one came to get the poor children . It was dark at night when they awoke , and Hansel comforted and Gretel and said , " Wait , when the moon comes up I will be able to see the crumbs of bread that I scattered , and they will show they the way back home . " When the moon appeared they got up , but they could not find any crumbs , for the many thousands of birds that fly about in the woods and in the fields had pecked they up . Hansel said to and Gretel , " they will find they way , " but they did not find it . they walked through the entire night and the next day from morning until evening , but they did not find they way out of the woods . they were terribly hungry , for they had eaten only a few small berries that were growing on the ground . And because they were so tired that they legs would no longer carry they , they lay down under a tree and fell asleep . It was already the third morning since they had left the father 's house . they started walking again , but managed only to go deeper and deeper into the woods . If help did not come soon , they would perish . At midday they saw a little snow - white bird sitting on a branch . It sang so beautifully that they stopped to listen . When it was finished it stretched its wings and flew in front of they . they followed it until they came to a little house . The bird sat on the roof , and when they came closer , they saw that the little house was built entirely from bread with a roof made of cake , and the windows were made of clear sugar . " Let 's help they to a good meal , " said Hansel . " I 'll eat a piece of the roof , and and Gretel , you eat from the window . That will be sweet . " Hansel reached up and broke off a little of the roof to see how it tasted , while and Gretel stood next to the windowpanes and was nibbling at them . Then a gentle voice called out from inside : Nibble , nibble , little mouse , Who is nibbling at my house?The children answered : The wind , the wind , The heavenly child . They continued to eat , without being distracted . Hansel , who very much like the taste of the roof , tore down another large piece , and and Gretel poked out an entire round windowpane . Suddenly the door opened , and the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone , as old as the hills and leaning on a crutch , came creeping out . Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel and Gretel were so frightened that Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel dropped what Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel were holding in Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel hands . But the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone shook the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone head and said , " Oh , Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel dear children , who brought Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel here ? Just come in and stay with the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone . No harm will come to Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel . " the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone took They by the hand and led They into the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone house . Then the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone served They a good meal : milk and pancakes with sugar , apples , and nuts . Afterward the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone made two nice beds for They , decked in white . Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel and Gretel went to bed , thinking Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel were in heaven . But the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone had only pretended to be friendly . the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone was a wicked witch who was lying in wait there for children . the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone had built the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone house of bread only in order to lure They to the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone , and if the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone captured one , the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone would kill him , cook him , and eat him ; and for the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone that was a day to celebrate . Witches have red eyes and can not see very far , but Witches have a sense of smell like animals , and know when humans are approaching . When Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel and Gretel came near to the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone , the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone laughed wickedly and spoke scornfully , " Now I have Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel . Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel will not get away from I again . " Early the next morning , before Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel awoke , the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone got up , went to Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel beds , and looked at the two of Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel lying there so peacefully , with Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel full red cheeks . " Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel will be a good mouthful , " the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone mumbled to the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone . Then the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone grabbed Hansel with the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone withered hand and carried him to a little stall , where the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone locked him behind a cage door . Cry as he might , there was no help for him . Then the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone shook and Gretel and cried , " Get up , lazybones ! Fetch water and cook something good for your brother . your brother is locked outside in the stall and is to be fattened up . When your brother is fat I am going to eat your brother . " and Gretel began to cry , but it was all for nothing . the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone had to do what the godless witch demanded . Now Hansel was given the best things to eat every day , but and Gretel received nothing but crayfish shells . Every morning the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone crept out to the stall and shouted , " Hansel , stick out your finger , so the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone can feel if your are fat yet . " But Hansel stuck out a little bone , and the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone , thought it was Hansel 's finger , and the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone wondered why he did n't get fat . When four weeks had passed and Hansel was still thin , impatience overcame the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone , and the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone would wait no longer . " Hey , and Gretel ! " the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone shouted to the girl , " Hurry up and fetch some water . Whether Hansel is fat or thin , tomorrow the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone am going to slaughter him and boil him . " Oh , how the poor little sister sobbed as the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone was forced to carry the water , and how the tears streamed down the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone cheeks ! " Dear God , please help us , " the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone cried . " If only the wild animals had devoured us in the woods , then us would have died together . " " Save your slobbering , " said the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone . " It does n't help your at all . " The next morning and Gretel had to get up early , hang up the kettle with water , and make a fire . " First we are going to bake , " said the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone . " I have already made a fire in the oven and kneaded the dough . " the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone pushed and Gretel outside to the oven , from which fiery flames were leaping . " Climb in , " said the godless witch , " and see if it is hot enough to put the bread in yet . " And when and Gretel was inside , the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone intended to close the oven , and bake the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone , and eat the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone as well . But and Gretel saw what the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone had in mind , so the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone said , " and Gretel do n't know how to do that . How can and Gretel get inside ? " " Stupid goose , " said the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone . The opening is big enough . See , I I could get in . " And the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone crawled up stuck the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone head into the oven . Then and Gretel gave the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone a shove , causing the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone to fall in . Then the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone closed the iron door and secured it with a bar . the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone began to howl frightfully . But and Gretel ran away , and the godless witch burned up miserably . and Gretel ran straight to Hansel , unlocked and Gretel stall , and cried , " Hansel , we are saved . the godless witch is dead . " Then Hansel jumped out , like a bird from its cage when someone opens its door . How happy These were ! These threw These arms around each other 's necks , jumped with joy , and kissed one another . Because These now had nothing to fear , These went into the godless witch house . In every corner were chests of pearls and precious stones . " These are better than pebbles , " said Hansel , filling his pockets . and Gretel said , " and Gretel will take some home with and Gretel as well , " and and Gretel filled and Gretel apron full . " But now we must leave , " said Hansel , " and get out of these witch - woods . " After walking a few hours they arrived at a large body of water . " we can not get across , " said Hansel . " and Gretel can not see a walkway or a bridge . " " There are no boats here , " answered and Gretel , " but there is a white duck swimming . If and Gretel ask it , it will help we across . " Then and Gretel called out : Duckling , duckling , Here stand Hansel and the girl 's name was Gretel . Neither a walkway nor a bridge , Take we onto your white back . Duckling , duckling came up to Duckling , duckling , and Hansel climbed onto Duckling , duckling , then asked the poor little sister to sit down next to him . " No , " answered and Gretel . " That would be too heavy for Duckling , duckling . It should take we across one at a time . " That is what the good animal did , and when they were safely on the other side , and had walked on a little while , the woods grew more and more familiar to them , and finally they saw the father 's house in the distance . They began to run , rushed inside , and threw their arms around the father 's neck . The man had not had even one happy hour since The man had left the children in the woods . However , the old woman , who had bad eyes and could not see the bone had died . and Gretel shook out and Gretel apron , scattering pearls and precious stones around the room , and Hansel added to them by throwing one handful after the other from one handful after the other pockets . Now all their cares were at an end , and they lived happily together . 