Once upon a time, there was a little girl who lived in a village near the forest.  Whenever a little girl who lived in a village near the forest went out, the little girl wore a red riding cloak, so everyone in the village called a little girl who lived in a village near the forest Little Red Riding Hood. One morning, Little Red Riding Hood asked a little girl who lived in a village near the forest mother if a little girl who lived in a village near the forest could go to visit a little girl who lived in a village near the forest grandmother as Little Red Riding Hood had been awhile since they'd seen each other.  "That's a good idea," a little girl who lived in a village near the forest mother said.  So they packed a nice basket for Little Red Riding Hood to take to a little girl who lived in a village near the forest grandmother. When the basket was ready, the little girl put on a little girl who lived in a village near the forest red cloak and kissed a little girl who lived in a village near the forest mother goodbye.  "Remember, go straight to Grandma's house," a little girl who lived in a village near the forest mother cautioned.  "Don't dawdle along the way and please don't talk to strangers! The woods are dangerous. ""Don't worry, mommy,"said Little Red Riding Hood,"I'll be careful. "But when Little Red Riding Hood noticed some lovely flowers in the woods, a little girl who lived in a village near the forest forgot a little girl who lived in a village near the forest promise to a little girl who lived in a village near the forest mother.  a little girl who lived in a village near the forest picked a few, watched the butterflies flit about for awhile, listened to the frogs croaking and then picked a few more. Little Red Riding Hood was enjoying the warm summer day so much, that a little girl who lived in a village near the forest didn't notice a dark shadow approaching out of the forest behind a little girl who lived in a village near the forest. . .  Suddenly, the wolf appeared beside a little girl who lived in a village near the forest.  "What are you doing out here, little girl?" the wolf asked in a voice as friendly as Wolf could muster.  "Wolf'm on Wolf way to see Wolf Grandma who lives through the forest, near the brook," Little Red Riding Hood replied. Then a little girl who lived in a village near the forest realized how late a little girl who lived in a village near the forest was and quickly excused a little girl who lived in a village near the forest, rushing down the path to a little girl who lived in a village near the forest Grandma's house. The wolf, in the meantime, took a shortcut. . .  The wolf, a little out of breath from running, arrived at Grandma's and knocked lightly at the door.  "Oh thank goodness dear! Come in, come in! I was worried sick that something had happened to you in the forest,"said her Grandma's thinking that the knock was a little girl who lived in a village near the forest granddaughter. The wolf let himself in.  Poor Granny did not have time to say another word, before the wolf gobbled a little girl who lived in a village near the forest up!The wolf let out a satisfied burp, and then poked through Granny's wardrobe to find a nightgown that himself liked.  himself added a frilly sleeping cap, and for good measure, dabbed some of Granny's perfume behind himself pointy ears. A few minutes later, Red Riding Hood knocked on the door.  The wolf jumped into bed and pulled the covers over Wolf nose.  "Who is Little Red Riding Hood?" himself called in a cackly voice.  "Little Red Riding Hood's me, Little Red Riding Hood. " "Oh how lovely! Do come in, me dear,"croaked the wolf. When Little Red Riding Hood entered the little cottage, a little girl who lived in a village near the forest could scarcely recognize a little girl who lived in a village near the forest Grandmother. "Grandmother! a little girl who lived in a village near the forest voice sounds so odd.  Is something the matter?"a little girl who lived in a village near the forest asked. "Oh, a little girl who lived in a village near the forest just have touch of a cold,"squeaked the wolf adding a cough at the end to prove the point. "But Grandmother! What big ears you have,"said Little Red Riding Hood as a little girl who lived in a village near the forest edged closer to the bed. "The better to hear you with, my dear,"replied the wolf. "But Grandmother! What big eyes you have,"said Little Red Riding Hood. "The better to see you with, my dear,"replied the wolf. "But Grandmother! What big teeth you have,"said Little Red Riding Hood a little girl who lived in a village near the forest voice quivering slightly. "The better to eat you with, my dear,"roared the wolf and he leapt out of the bed and began to chase the little girl. Almost too late, Little Red Riding Hood realized that the person in the bed was not a little girl who lived in a village near the forest Grandmother, but a hungry wolf. She ran across the room and through the door, shouting,"Help! Wolf!"as loudly as a little girl who lived in a village near the forest could. A woodsman who was chopping logs nearby heard a little girl who lived in a village near the forest cry and ran towards the cottage as fast as he could. He grabbed the wolf and made he spit out the poor Grandmother who was a bit frazzled by the whole experience, but still in one piece. "Oh her Grandma's, I was so scared!"sobbed Little Red Riding Hood,"I'll never speak to strangers or dawdle in the forest again. ""There, there, child.  You've learned an important lesson.  Thank goodness You shouted loud enough for this kind woodsman to hear You!"The woodsman knocked out the wolf and carried he deep into the forest where he wouldn't bother people any longer. Little Red Riding Hood and a little girl who lived in a village near the forest Grandmother had a nice lunch and a long chat. 