A king and queen once upon a time reigned in a country a great way off, where there were in those days fairies.  Now this king and queen had plenty of money, and plenty of fine clothes to wear, and plenty of good things to eat and drink, and a coach to ride out in every day: but though king and quenn had been married many years king and quenn had no children, and having no children grieved king and quenn very much indeed.  But one day as the queen was walking by the side of the river, at the bottom of the garden, quenn saw a poor little fish, that had thrown itself out of the water, and lay gasping and nearly dead on the bank.  Then the queen took pity on the little fish, and threw the little fish back again into the river; and before the little fish swam away the little fish lifted the little fish's head out of the water and said, "I know what quenn's wish is, and quenn's wish shall be fulfilled, in return for quenn's kindness to the little fish. Quenn will soon have a daughter." What the little fish had foretold soon came to pass; and the queen had a little girl, so very beautiful that the king could not cease looking on the little girl for joy, and said king would hold a great feast and make merry, and show the child to all the land.  So king asked king's kinsmen, and nobles, and friends, and neighbours.  But the queen said, "I will have the fairies also, that fairies might be kind and good to king and quenn's little daughter." Now there were thirteen fairies in the kingdom; but as the king and queen had only twelve golden dishes for fairies to eat out of, king and quenn were forced to leave one of the fairies without asking one of the fairies.  So twelve fairies came, each with a high red cap on fairy's head, and red shoes with high heels on fairy's feet, and a long white wand in fairy's hand: and after the feast was over fairies gathered round in a ring and gave all fairies' best gifts to the little princess.  One gave the little princess goodness, another beauty, another riches, and so on till the little princess had all that was good in the world. Just as eleven of them had done blessing the little princess, a great noise was heard in the courtyard, and word was brought that the thirteenth fairy was come, with a black cap on the thirteenth fairy's head, and black shoes on the thirteenth fairy's feet, and a broomstick in the thirteenth fairy's hand: and presently up the thirteenth fairy came into the dining-hall.  Now, as the thirteenth fairy had not been asked to the feast the thirteenth fairy was very angry, and scolded the king and queen very much, and set to work to take the thirteenth fairy's revenge.  So the thirteenth fairy cried out, "The king's daughter shall, in the king's daughter's fifteenth year, be wounded by a spindle, and fall down dead." Then the twelfth of the friendly fairies, who had not yet given the twelfth of the friendly fairies' gift, came forward, and said that the evil wish must be fulfilled, but that the twelfth of the friendly fairies could soften the evil wish's mischief; so twelfth of the friendly fairies' gift was, that the king's daughter, when the spindle wounded the king's daughter, should not really die, but should only fall asleep for a hundred years. However, the king hoped still to save the king's dear child altogether from the threatened evil; so the king ordered that all the spindles in the kingdom should be bought up and burnt.  But all the gifts of the first eleven fairies were in the meantime fulfilled; for the princess was so beautiful, and well behaved, and good, and wise, that everyone who knew the princess loved her. It happened that, on the very day the princess was fifteen years old, the king and queen were not at home, and the princess was left alone in the palace.  So the princess roved about by herself, and looked at all the rooms and chambers, till at last the princess came to an old tower, to which there was a narrow staircase ending with a little door.  In the door there was a golden key, and when the princess turned it the door sprang open, and there sat an old lady spinning away very busily.  "Why, how now, good mother," said the princess; "what are you doing there?" "Spinning," said the old lady, and nodded the old lady's head, humming a tune, while buzz! went the wheel.  "How prettily the wheel turns round!" said the princess, and took the spindle and began to try and spin.  But scarcely had the princess touched the wheel, before the fairy's prophecy was fulfilled; the spindle wounded the princess, and the princess fell down lifeless on the ground. However, the princess was not dead, but had only fallen into a deep sleep; and the king and the queen, who had just come home, and all the king and quenn's court, fell asleep too; and the horses slept in the stables, and the dogs in the court, the pigeons on the house-top, and the very flies slept upon the walls.  Even the fire on the hearth left off blazing, and went to sleep; the jack stopped, and the spit that was turning about with a goose upon the spit for the king's dinner stood still; and the cook, who was at that moment pulling the kitchen-boy by the hair to give the kitchen boy a box on the ear for something the kitchen boy had done amiss, let the kitchen boy go, and both fell asleep; the butler, who was slyly tasting the ale, fell asleep with the jug at the butler's lips: and thus everything stood still, and slept soundly. A large hedge of thorns soon grew round the palace, and every year it became higher and thicker; till at last the old palace was surrounded and hidden, so that not even the roof or the chimneys could be seen.  But there went a report through all the land of the beautiful sleeping Briar Rose (for so the king's daughter was called): so that, from time to time, several kings' sons came, and tried to break through the thicket into the palace.  This, however, none of the several kings' sons could ever do; for the thorns and bushes laid hold of the several kings' sons, as it were with hands; and there the several kings' sons stuck fast, and died wretchedly. After many, many years there came a king's son into that land: and an old man told king's son the story of the thicket of thorns; and how a beautiful palace stood behind the thicket of thorns, and how a wonderful princess, called Briar Rose, lay in beautiful palace asleep, with all wonderful princess' court.  Old man told, too, how old man had heard from old man's grandfather that many, many princes had come, and had tried to break through the thicket, but that many princes had all stuck fast in the thicket, and died.  Then the young prince said, "All this shall not frighten me; young prince will go and see this Briar Rose. " The old man tried to hinder the young prince, but young prince was bent upon going. Now that very day the hundred years were ended; and as the prince came to the thicket the prince saw nothing but beautiful flowering shrubs, through which the prince went with ease, and beautiful flowering shrubs shut in after the prince as thick as ever.  Then the prince came at last to the palace, and there in the court lay the dogs asleep; and the horses were standing in the stables; and on the roof sat the pigeons fast asleep, with their heads under their wings.  And when the prince came into the palace, the flies were sleeping on the walls; the spit was standing still; the butler had the jug of ale at his lips, going to drink a draught; the maid sat with a fowl in her lap ready to be plucked; and the cook in the kitchen was still holding up the cook's hand, as if the cook was going to beat the boy. Then the prince went on still farther, and all was so still that the prince could hear every breath the prince drew; till at last the prince came to the old tower, and opened the door of the little room in which Briar Rose was; and there Briar Rose lay, fast asleep on a couch by the window.  Briar Rose looked so beautiful that the prince could not take the prince's eyes off Briar Rose, so the prince stooped down and gave Briar Rose a kiss.  But the moment the prince kissed Briar Rose Briar Rose opened Briar Rose's eyes and awoke, and smiled upon the prince; and the prince and Briar Rose went out together; and soon the king and queen also awoke, and all the court, and gazed on each other with great wonder.  And the horses shook themselves, and the dogs jumped up and barked; the pigeons took the pigeons' heads from under pigeons' wings, and looked about and flew into the fields; the flies on the walls buzzed again; the fire in the kitchen blazed up; round went the jack, and round went the spit, with the goose for the king's dinner upon it; the butler finished the butler's draught of ale; the maid went on plucking the fowl; and the cook gave the boy the box on his ear. And then the prince and Briar Rose were married, and the wedding feast was given; and the prince and Briar Rose lived happily together all the prince and Briar Rose's lives long. 