A certain cat had made the acquaintance of a mouse, and had said so much to mouse about the great love and friendship cat felt for mouse , that at length the mouse agreed that cat and mouse should live and keep house together.  ‘But cast and mouse must make a provision for winter, or else cat and mouse shall suffer from hunger,’ said the cat; ‘and you, little mouse, cannot venture everywhere, or little mouse will be caught in a trap some day. ’ The good advice was followed, and a pot of fat was bought, but cat and mouse did not know where to put the pot of fat.  At length, after much consideration, the cat said: "The Cat knows no place where the pot of fat will be better stored up than in the church, for no one dares take anything away from the church.  Cat and mouse will set the pot of fat beneath the altar, and not touch the pot of fat until cat and mouse are really in need of the pot of fat. " So the pot was placed in safety, but it was not long before the cat had a great yearning for the pot, and said to the mouse: ‘The cat want to tell the mouse something, little mouse; the cat's cousin has brought a little son into the world, and has asked the cat to be godmother; the little son is white with brown spots, and the cat is to hold the little son over the font at the christening.  Let the cat go out today, and the mouse look after the house by yourself. ’ ‘Yes, yes,’ answered the mouse, ‘by all means go, and if the cat gets anything very good to eat, think of the mouse.  The mouse should like a drop of sweet red christening wine myself. ’ All this, however, was untrue; the cat had no cousin, and had not been asked to be godmother.  The cat went straight to the church, stole to the pot of fat, began to lick at the pot of fat, and licked the top of the fat off.  Then the cat took a walk upon the roofs of the town, looked out for opportunities, and then stretched herself in the sun, and licked the cat's lips whenever the cat thought of the pot of fat, and not until it was evening did the cat return home.  ‘Well, here the cat is again,’ said the mouse, ‘no doubt the cat has had a merry day. ’ ‘All went off well,’ answered the cat.  ‘What name did the cat's cousin give the child?’ ‘Top off!’ said the cat quite coolly.  ‘Top off!’ cried the mouse, ‘Top off is a very odd and uncommon name, is Top off a usual one in the cat's family?’ ‘What does that matter,’ said the cat, ‘Top off is no worse than Crumb-stealer, as the mouse's godchildren are called. ’Before long the cat was seized by another fit of yearning.  The cat said to the mouse: ‘The mouse must do the cat a favour, and once more manage the house for a day alone.  The cat is again asked to be godmother, and, as the child has a white ring round the child's neck,  the cat cannot refuse. ’ The good mouse consented, but the cat crept behind the town walls to the church, and devoured half the pot of fat.  ‘Nothing ever seems so good as what one keeps to oneself,’ said the cat, and was quite satisfied with the cat's day’s work.  When the cat went home the mouse inquired: ‘And what was the child christened?’ ‘Half-done,’ answered the cat.  ‘Half-done! What are you saying? The mouse never heard the name in the mouse's life, The mouse will wager anything Half-done is not in the calendar!’The cat’s mouth soon began to water for some more licking.  ‘All good things go in threes,’ said the cat, ‘ The Cat is asked to stand godmother again.  The child is quite black, only the child has white paws, but with that exception, the child has not a single white hair on the child's whole body; this only happens once every few years, the mouse will let the cat go, won’t the mouse?’ ‘Top-off! Half-done!’ answered the mouse, ‘Top off and Half-Done are such odd names, Top off and Half-Done make the mouse very thoughtful. ’ ‘The mouse sits at home,’ said the cat, ‘in the mouse's dark-grey fur coat and long tail, and are filled with fancies, that’s because the mouse does not go out in the daytime. ’ During the cat’s absence the mouse cleaned the house, and put the house in order, but the greedy cat entirely emptied the pot of fat.  ‘When everything is eaten up one has some peace,’ said the cat to herself, and well filled and fat the cat did not return home till night.  The mouse at once asked what name had been given to the third child.  ‘It will not please you more than the others,’ said the cat.  "The child is called All-gone. "  "All-gone,"cried the mouse ‘All-gone is the most suspicious name of all! The mouse has never seen All-gone in print.  All-gone; what can All-gone mean?’ and the mouse shook the mouse's head, curled herself up, and lay down to sleep. From this time forth no one invited the cat to be godmother, but when the winter had come and there was no longer anything to be found outside, the mouse thought of the cat and the mouse's provision, and said: ‘Come, cat, we will go to the cat and the mouse's pot of fat which the cat and the mouse have stored up for ourselves—the cat and the mouse shall enjoy that. ’ ‘Yes,’ answered the cat, ‘The mouse will enjoy it as much as the mouse would enjoy sticking that dainty tongue of the mouse out of the window. ’ the cat and the mouse set out on the cat and the mouse's way, but when the cat and the mouse arrived, the pot of fat certainly was still in , the pot of fat's place, but , the pot of fat was empty.  ‘Alas!’ said the mouse, ‘now The mouse sees what has happened, now it comes to light! The cat are a true friend! The cat has devoured all when the cat was standing godmother.  First top off, then half-done, then—’ ‘Will the mouse hold the mouse's tongue,’ cried the cat, ‘one word more, and the will eat them ouse too. ’ ‘All-gone’ was already on the poor mouse’s lips; scarcely had the mouse spoken All-gone before the cat sprang on the mouse, seized the mouse, and swallowed the mouse down.  Verily, that is the way of the world. 