Cinderella lived with Cinderella's stepmother, Anna and Monica.
Poor Cinderella had to work hard all day long so the stepmother, Anna and Monica could rest.
Cinderella had to wake up each morning when it was still dark and cold to start the fire.
Cinderella cooked the meals.
Cinderella kept the fire going.
Cinderella could not stay clean, from all the ashes and cinders by the fire.
“What a mess!” Anna and Monica laughed.
And that is why Anna and Monica called her “Cinderella.”
One day, big news came to town.
The King and Queen were going to have a ball!  It was time for the Prince to find a bride.
All of the young ladies in the land were invited to come.
the young ladies were wild with joy! the young ladies would wear young ladies' most beautiful gown and fix young ladies' hair extra nice.
Maybe the prince would like the young ladies! At Cinderella"s house, Cinderella now had extra work to do.
Cinderella had to make two brand-new gowns for Anna and Monica.
“Faster!” shouted Anna.
“You call that a dress?” screamed Monica.
“Oh, dear!” said Cinderella.
“When can I–“ The stepmother marched into the room.
“When can you WHAT?”“Well,” said Cinderella, “when will Cinderella have time to make Cinderella's own dress for the ball?” “Cinderella?” yelled the stepmother.
“Who said Cinderella was going to the ball?” “What a laugh!” said Anna.
“Such a mess!” Anna and Monica pointed at Cinderella.
The stepmother,Anna and Monica laughed.
Cinderella said to herself, “When the stepmother,Anna and Monica look at Cinderella, maybe the stepmother,Anna and Monica see a mess.
But Cinderella is not that way.
And if Cinderella could, Cinderella WOULD go to the ball.”
Soon the time came for the stepmother, Anna and Monica to leave for the big party.
The stepmother, Anna and Monica's fine carriage came to the door.
The stepmother, Anna and Monica hopped inside.
And The stepmother, Anna and Monica were off.
“Good-bye!” called Cinderella.
“Have a good time!” But the stepmother, Anna and Monica did not turn around to see Cinderella.
“Ah, me!” said Cinderella sadly.
The carriage rode down the street.
Cinderella said aloud, “Cinderella wishes Cinderella could go to the ball, too!” 
Then - Poof! All of a sudden, in front of Cinderella was the Fairy Godmother.
“Cinderella called?” said the fairy.
“Did Cinderella?” said Cinderella.
“Who are you?” 
“Why, the Fairy Godmother, of course! The Fairy Godmother knows Cinderella"s wish.
And the Fairy Godmother have come to grant Cinderella"s wish.
”“But…” said Cinderella, “Cinderella"s wish is impossible.”
“Excuse me!” said the Fairy Godmother in a huff.
“Did the Fairy Godmother not just show up out of thin air?”
“Yes, the Fairy Godmother did,” said Cinderella.
“Then let the Fairy Godmother be the one to say what is possible or not!”
“Well, Cinderella thinks the Fairy Godmother know Cinderella wants to go to the ball, too.”
Cinderella looked down at Cinderella"s dirty clothes.
“But look at Cinderella.”
“Cinderella does look a bit of a mess, Cinderella,” said the Fairy Godmother.
“Even if Cinderella had something nice to wear," said Cinderella, "Cinderella would have no way to get there.
"“Dear me, all of that is possible,” said the Fairy Godmother.
 With that, the Fairy Godmother tapped the Fairy Godmother's wand on Cinderella"s head.
At once, Cinderella was all clean.
Cinderella was dressed in a beautiful blue gown.
Cinderella's hair was set up high on Cinderella's head inside a golden band.
“This is wonderful!” said Cinderella.
“Who said the Fairy Godmother was done?” said the Fairy Godmother.
The Fairy Godmother tapped the Fairy Godmother's wand again.
At once, a beautiful carriage came to be, with a driver and four white horses.
“Is Cinderella dreaming?” said Cinderella, looking around Cinderella.
“It is as real, as real can be,” said the Fairy Godmother.
“But there is one thing Cinderella must know.”
“What is that?”
“The Magic lasts only to midnight.
Tonight, at the stroke of midnight, the Magic will all be over.
Everything will go back to how everything was before.”
“Then Cinderella must be sure to leave the ball before midnight!” said Cinderella.
“Good idea,” said the Fairy Godmother.
the Fairy Godmother stepped back.
“The Fairy Godmother's work is done.”
And with that, the Fairy Godmother was gone.
Cinderella looked around Cinderella.
"Did that even happen?"
But there Cinderella stood in a fine gown, and with a golden band in Cinderella"s hair.
And there were Cinderella"s driver and four horses before Cinderella, waiting.
“Coming?” called the driver.
Cinderella stepped into the carriage.
And Cinderella and the driver were off.
Over at the ball, the Prince did not know what to think.
"Why does the Prince have that sad look on the Prince's face?” the Queen said to the Prince.
Look around the Prince! The Prince could not ask for finer maidens than these.”
“The Prince knows, the Quenn,” said the Prince.
Yet the Prince knew something was wrong.
The Prince had met many of the young ladies.
Yet after the Prince said “hello,” one by one, the Prince could find nothing more to say.
"Look!"  Harry pointed to the front door.
“Who is that?” All heads turned.
Cinderella was stepping down the stairs?  Cinderella held Cinderella's head tall and looked as if Cinderella belonged.
But no one knew Cinderella.
“There is something about Cinderella,” said the Prince to the Prince.
“The Prince will ask Cinderella to dance.”
And the Prince walked over to Cinderella.
“Have Cinderella and the Prince met?” said the Prince.
“Cinderella is am pleased to meet the Prince now,” said Cinderella with a bow.
"The Prince feels as if the Prince knows you,” said the Prince.
“But of course, that is impossible.”
“Many things are possible,” said Cinderella, “if you wish them to be true.”
The Prince felt a leap in his heart.
The Prince and Cinderella danced.
When the song was over, the Prince and Cinderella danced again.
And then the Prince and Cinderella danced again, and yet again.
Soon the other young ladies at the ball grew jealous.
“Why is the Prince dancing all the time with Cinderella?” young ladies said.
"How rude!”
But all the Prince could see was Cinderella.
The Prince and Cinderella laughed and talked, and the Prince and Cinderella danced some more.
In fact, the Prince and Cinderella danced for so long that Cinderella did not see the clock.
“Dong!” said the clock.
Cinderella looked up.
“Dong!” went the clock again.
Cinderella looked up again.
“Oh, my!” Cinderella cried out.
“It is almost midnight!”
“Dong!” rung the clock.
“Why does that matter?” said the Prince.
“Dong!” called the clock.
“Cinderella must go!” said Cinderella.
“Dong!” went the clock.
“But the Prince and Cinderella just met!” said the Prince.
“Why leave now?”“Dong!” rung the clock.
“I must GO!” said Cinderella.
Cinderella ran to the steps.
“Dong!” said the clock.
“The Prince cannot hear you,” said the Prince.
“The clock is too loud!”
“Dong!” rung the clock.
“Goodbye!” said Cinderella.
Up, up the stairs she ran.
“Dong!” went the clock.
“Please, stop for a moment!” said the Prince.
“Oh, dear!” Cinderella said as one glass slipper fell off Cinderella"s foot on the stair.
But Cinderella kept running up.
“Dong!” said the clock.
“Please wait a moment!” said the Prince.
“Dong!” rung the clock.
“Goodbye!” Cinderella turned one last time.
Then Cinderella rushed out the door.
“Dong!”  The clock was quiet.
It was midnight.
“Wait!” called the Prince.
The Prince picked up her glass slipper and rushed out the door.
The Prince looked around but could not see Cinderella"s blue dress anywhere.
“This is all the Prince have left from Cinderella,” the Prince said, looking down at the glass slipper.
The Prince saw that the glass slipper was made in a special way, to fit a foot like none other.
“Somewhere there is the other glass slipper,” the Prince said.
“And when the Prince finds it, The Prince will find Cinderella, too.
Then the Prince will ask Cinderella to be the Prince's bride!”
From hut to hut, from house to house, went the Prince.
Young ladies tried to fit young ladies' foot inside the glass slipper.
But none could fit.
And so the Prince moved on.
At last the Prince came to Cinderella"s house.
“The Prince is coming!” called Anna as Anna looked out the window.
“At the door!” screamed Monica.
“Quick!” yelled the stepmother.
“Get ready! One of Anna and Monica must be the one to fit your foot in that slipper.
No matter what!”
The Prince knocked.
The stepmother flew open the door.
“Come in!” the stepmother said.
“The Stepmother has Anna and Monica for the Prince to see.”
Anna tried to place Anna's foot in the glass slipper.
Anna tried hard, but Anna's foot just would not fit.
Then Monica tried to fit Monica's foot inside.
Monica tried and tried with all Monica's might, too.
But no dice.
 “Are there no other young women in the house?” said the Prince.
 “None,” said the stepmother.
 “Then the Prince must go,” said the Prince.
 “Maybe there is one more,” said Cinderella, stepping into the room.
 “The Prince thought the stepmother said there were no other young women here,” said the Prince.
 “None who matter!” said the stepmother in a hiss.
 “Come here,” said the Prince.
 Cinderella stepped up to the Prince.
   The Prince got down on one knee and tried the glass slipper on Cinderella"s foot.
   The glass slipper fit perfectly! Then, from Cinderella's pocket Cinderella took out something.
  It was the other glass slipper!“ The Prince knew it!” The Prince cried.
   “Cinderella is the one!”“WHAT?” shouted Anna.
 “Not Cinderella!” screamed Monica.
 “This cannot BE!” yelled the stepmother.
 But it was too late.
   The Prince knew that Cinderella was the one.
   The Prince looked into Cinderella"s eyes.
  The Prince did not see the cinders in Cinderella"s hair or the ashes on Cinderella"s face.
 “ The Prince has found Cinderella!” the Prince said.
 “And Cinderella has found The Prince,” said Cinderella.
 And so Cinderella and the Prince were married, and Cinderella and the Prince lived happily ever after.
 