Next to a great forest there lived the father with the wife and Hansel and Gretel.

  The boy's name was Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel.

  The father had but little to eat, and once, when a great famine came to the land, the father could no longer provide even the father,the wife and Hansel and Gretel's daily bread.
 One evening as the father was lying in bed worrying about the father's problems, the father sighed and said to the wife, "What is to become of the father and the wife? How can the father and the wife feed Hansel and Gretel 
 when the father and the wife have nothing for the father and the wife?"
 "Man, do you know what?" answered the wife.
  "Early tomorrow morning the father and the wife will take Hansel and gretel out into the thickest part of the woods, make a fire for Hansel and Gretel,
  and give each of Hansel and Gretel a little piece of bread, then leave Hansel and Gretel by themselves and go off to the father and the wife's work.
  Hansel and Gretel will not find Hansel and Gretel's way back home, and the father and the wife will be rid of them."
  "No, wife," said the father.
  "The father will not do that.
  How could the father bring the farther to abandon Hansel and Gretel alone in the woods? Wild animals would soon come and tear Hansel and Gretel to pieces."
  "Oh, you fool," the wife said, "then all four of us will starve.
  All the father can do is to plane the boards for the father and the wife's coffins." 
  And the wife gave father no peace until the father agreed.
 "But I do feel sorry for Hansel and Gretel," said the father.
 Hansel and Gretel had not been able to fall asleep because of Hansel and Gretel's hunger, and Hansel and Gretel heard what the wife had said to the father.
 Gretel cried bitter tears and said to Hansel, "It is over with Hansel and Gretel!"
 "Be quiet, Gretel," said Hansel, "and don't worry.
  Hansel knows what to do."
  And as soon as the father and the wife had fallen asleep, Hansel got up, pulled on Hansel's jacket, opened the lower door, and crept outside.
  The moon was shining brightly, and the white pebbles in front of the house were glistening like silver coins.
  Hansel bent over and filled Hansel's jacket pockets with the white pebbles, as many as would fit.
  Then Hansel went back into the house and said, "Don't worry, Gretel.
  Sleep well.
  God will not forsake Hansel and Gretel." 
  Then Hansel went back to bed.
  At daybreak, even before sunrise, the wife came and woke the two children.
  "Get up, you lazybones.
  the wife and Hansel and Gretel are going into the woods to fetch wood."
  Then the wife gave each one a little piece of bread, saying, "Here is something for midday.
  Don't eat the little piece of bread any sooner, for Hansel and Gretel will not get any more."
  Gretel put the bread under Gretel's apron, because Hansel's pockets were full of stones.
  Then all together the wife and Hansel and Gretel set forth into the woods.
  After the wife and Hansel and Gretel had walked a little way, Hansel began stopping again and again and looking back toward the house.
 The father said, "Hansel, why are you stopping and looking back? Pay attention now, and don't forget Hansel's legs."
 "Oh, father," said Hansel, "Hansel is looking at Hansel's white cat that is sitting on the roof and wants to say good-bye to Hansel.
 "The wife said, "You fool, that isn't your cat.
  That's the morning sun shining on the chimney.
 "However, Hansel had not been looking at Hansel's cat but instead had been dropping the shiny pebbles from Hansel's pocket onto the path.
 When the wife, the father and Hansel and Gretel arrived in the middle of the woods, the father said, "Hansel and Gretel gather some wood, and the father will make a fire so Hansel and Gretel won't freeze.
 "Hansel and Gretel gathered together some twigs, a pile as high as a small mountain. The twigs were set afire, and when the flames were burning well, the wife said, "Lie down by the fire and rest.
  the wife and the father will go into the woods to cut wood.
  When the wife and the father are finished, the wife and the father will come back and get Hansel and Gretel."
  Hansel and Gretel sat by the fire.
  When midday came each one ate his little piece of bread.
  Because Hansel and Gretel could hear the blows of an ax, Hansel and Gretel thought that the father was nearby.
  However, it was not an ax.
  It was a branch that the father had tied to a dead tree and that the wind was beating back and forth.
  After Hansel and Gretel had sat there a long time, Hansel and Gretel's eyes grew weary and closed, and Hansel and Gretel fell sound sleep.
  When Hansel and Gretel finally awoke, it was dark at night.
  Gretel began to cry and said, "How will Hansel and Gretel get out of woods?" Hansel comforted Gretel, "Wait a little until the moon comes up, and then Hansel and Gretel will find the way."
  After the full moon had come up, Hansel took Gretel by the hand.
  Hansel and Gretel followed the pebbles that glistened there like newly minted coins, showing Hansel and Gretel the way.
  Hansel and Gretel walked throughout the entire night, and as morning was breaking, Hansel and Gretel arrived at the father's house.
  Hansel and Gretel knocked on the door, and when the wife opened the door and saw that it was Hansel and Gretel, the wife said, 
  "You wicked Hansel and Gretel, 
  why did Hansel and Gretel sleep so long in the woods? the wife and the father thought that Hansel and Gretel did not want to come back."
  But the father was overjoyed when the father saw Hansel and Gretel once more, for the father had not wanted to leave Hansel and Gretel alone.
  Not long afterward there was once again great need everywhere, and one evening Hansel and Gretel heard the wife say to the father, "The wife, the father and Hansel and Gretel have again eaten up everything.
  The wife, the father and Hansel and Gretel have only a half loaf of bread, and then the song will be over.
  The wife and the father must get rid of Hansel and Gretel.
  The wife and the father will take Hansel and Gretel deeper into the woods, so Hansel and Gretel will not find Hansel and Gretel's way out.
  Otherwise there will be no help for the wife and the father."
  The father was very disheartened, and the father thought, "It would be better to share the last bit with Hansel and Gretel."
  But the wife would not listen to the father, scolded the father, and criticized the father.
  He who says A must also say B, and because the father had given in the first time, the father had to do so the second time as well.
  Hansel and Gretel were still awake and had overheard the conversation.
  When the father and the wife were asleep, Hansel got up again and wanted to gather pebbles as Hansel had done before, but the woman had locked the door, and Hansel could not get out.
  But Hansel comforted Hansel's little sister and said, "Don't cry, Gretel.
  Sleep well.
  God will help Hansel and Gretel."
  Early the next morning the wife came and got Hansel and Gretel from Hansel and Gretel's beds.
  Hansel and Gretel received Hansel and Gretel's little pieces of bread, even less than the last time.
  On the way to the woods, Hansel crumbled Hansel's piece in Hansel's pocket, then often stood still, and threw crumbs onto the ground.
  "Hansel, why are you always stopping and looking around?" said the father.
  "Keep walking straight ahead."
  "Hansel can see Hansel's pigeon sitting on the roof.
  Hansel's pigeon wants to say good-bye to Hansel."
  "Fool," said the wife, "that isn't Hansel's pigeon.
  That's the morning sun shining on the chimney."
  But little by little Hansel dropped all the crumbs onto the path.
  The wife took Hansel and Gretel deeper into the woods than Hansel and Gretel had ever been in the Hansel and Gretel's whole lifetime.
  Once again a large fire was made, and the wife said, "Sit here, Hansel and Gretel.
  If Hansel and Gretel get tired Hansel and Gretel can sleep a little.
  the wife and the father are going into the woods to cut wood.
  the wife and the father will come and get Hansel and Gretel in the evening when the wife and the wife are finished."
  When it was midday Gretel shared Gretel's bread with Hansel, who had scattered Hansel's piece along the path.
  Then Hansel and Gretel fell asleep, and evening passed, but no one came to get Hansel and Gretel.
  It was dark at night when Hansel and Gretel awoke, and Hansel comforted Gretel and said, "Wait, when the moon comes up Hansel will be able to see the crumbs of bread that Hansel scattered, 
  and the crumbs of bread will show Hansel and Gretel the way back home."
  When the moon appeared Hansel and Gretel got up, but Hansel and Gretel could not find any crumbs, for the many thousands of birds that fly about in the woods and in the fields had pecked the crumbs of bread up.
 Hansel said to Gretel, "Hansel and Gretel will find Hansel and Gretel's way," but Hansel and Gretel did not find it.
 Hansel and Gretel walked through the entire night and the next day from morning until evening, but Hansel and Gretel did not find Hansel and Gretel's way out of the woods.
  Hansel and Gretel were terribly hungry, for Hansel and Gretel had eaten only a few small berries that were growing on the ground.
  And because Hansel and Gretel were so tired that Hansel and Gretel's legs would no longer carry Hansel and Gretel, Hansel and Gretel lay down under a tree and fell asleep.
  It was already the third morning since Hansel and Gretel had left the father's house.
  Hansel and Gretel started walking again, but managed only to go deeper and deeper into the woods.
  If help did not come soon, Hansel and Gretel would perish.
  At midday Hansel and Gretel saw a little snow-white bird sitting on a branch.
  the little snow-white bird sang so beautifully that Hansel and Gretel stopped to listen.
  When the little snow-white bird was finished the little snow-white bird stretched the little snow-white bird's wings and flew in front of Hansel and Gretel.
  Hansel and Gretel followed the little snow-white bird until Hansel and Gretel came to a little house.
  The little snow-white bird sat on the roof, and when Hansel and Gretel came closer, Hansel and Gretel saw that the little house was built entirely from bread with a roof made of cake, and the windows were made of clear sugar.
  "Let's help Hansel and Gretel to a good meal," said Hansel.
  "Hansel will eat a piece of the roof, and Gretel eats from the window.
  That will be sweet."
  Hansel reached up and broke off a little of the roof to see how the little of the roof tasted, while Gretel stood next to the windowpanes and was nibbling at the windowpanes.
  Then a gentle voice called out from inside "Nibble, nibble, little mouse,Who is nibbling at my house?" Hansel and Gretel answered" The wind, the wind,The heavenly child."
  Hansel and Gretel continued to eat, without being distracted.
  Hansel, who very much like the taste of the roof, tore down another large piece, and Gretel poked out an entire round windowpane.
  Suddenly the door opened, and the witch, as old as the hills and leaning on a crutch, came creeping out.
  Hansel and Gretel were so frightened that Hansel and Gretel dropped what Hansel and Gretel were holding in Hansel and Gretel's hands.
  But the witch shook the witch's head and said, "Oh, Hansel and Gretel dear children, who brought Hansel and Gretel here? Just come in and stay with the witch.
  No harm will come to Hansel and Gretel."
  the witch took Hansel and Gretel by the hand and led Hansel and Gretel into the witch's house.
  Then the witch served Hansel and Gretel a good meal: milk and pancakes with sugar, apples, and nuts.
  Afterward the witch made two nice beds for Hansel and Gretel, decked in white.
  Hansel and Gretel went to bed, Hansel and Gretel were in heaven.
  But the witch had only pretended to be friendly.
  The witch was a wicked witch who was lying in wait there for children.
  The witch had built the witch's house of bread only in order to lure Hansel and Gretel to the witch, and if the witch captured one, the witch would kill him,
  cook him, and eat him; and for the witch that was a day to celebrate.
  Witches have red eyes and cannot see very far, but witches have a sense of smell like animals, and know when humans are approaching.
  When Hansel and Gretel came near to the witch, the witch laughed wickedly and spoke scornfully, "Now the witch has Hansel and Gretel.
  Hansel and Gretel will not get away from the witch again."
  Early the next morning, before Hansel and Gretel awoke, the witch got up, went to Hansel and Gretel's beds, and looked at the two of Hansel and Gretel lying there so peacefully, with Hansel and Gretel's full red cheeks.
  "Hansel and Gretel will be a good mouthful," the witch mumbled to the witch.
  Then the witch grabbed Hansel with the witch's withered hand and carried Hansel to a little stall, where the witch locked Hansel behind a cage door.
  Cry as Hansel might, there was no help for Hansel.
  Then the witch shook Gretel and cried, "Get up, lazybones! Fetch water and cook something good for Gretel's brother.
  Gretel's brother is locked outside in the stall and is to be fattened up.
  When Gretel's brother is fat the witch is going to eat Gretel's brother."
  Gretel began to cry, but it was all for nothing.
  Gretel had to do what the witch demanded.
  Now Hansel was given the best things to eat every day, but Gretel received nothing but crayfish shells.
  Every morning the witch crept out to the stall and shouted, "Hansel, stick out Hansel's finger, so the witch can feel if Hansel is fat yet."
  But Hansel stuck out a little bone, and the witch, who had bad eyes and could not see the bone, thought the little bone was Hansel's finger, and the witch wondered why Hansel didn't get fat.
  When four weeks had passed and Hansel was still thin, impatience overcame the witch, and the witch would wait no longer.
  "Hey, Gretel!" the witch shouted to Gretel, "Hurry up and fetch some water.
  Whether Hansel is fat or thin, tomorrow the witch is going to slaughter Hansel and boil Hansel."
  Oh, how Gretel sobbed as Gretel was forced to carry the water, and how the tears streamed down Gretel's cheeks! "Dear God, please help Hansel and Gretel," Gretel cried.
  "If only the wild animals had devoured Hansel and Gretel in the woods, then Hansel and Gretel would have died together."
  "Save Gretel's slobbering," said the witch.
  "Gretel's slobbering doesn't help Gretel at all."
  The next morning Gretel had to get up early, hang up the kettle with water, and make a fire.
  "First we are going to bake," said the witch.
  "the witch has already made a fire in the oven and kneaded the dough."
   the witch pushed poor Gretel outside to the oven, from which fiery flames were leaping.
  "Climb in," said the witch, "and see if the oven is hot enough to put the bread in yet."
  And when Gretel was inside, the witch intended to close the oven, and bake Gretel, and eat Gretel as well.
  But Gretel saw what the witch had in mind, so Gretel said, "Gretel doesn't know how to do that.
  How can Gretel get inside?"
  "Stupid goose," said the witch.
  The opening is big enough.
  See, the witch could get in."
  And the witch crawled up stuck the witch's head into the oven.
  Then Gretel gave the witch a shove, causing the witch to fall in.
  Then Gretel closed the iron door and secured the iron door with a bar.
  The witch began to howl frightfully.
  But Gretel ran away, and the witch burned up miserably.
  Gretel ran straight to Hansel, unlocked Hansel's stall, and cried, "Hansel, Hansel and Gretel are saved.
  The witch is dead."
  Then Hansel jumped out, like a bird from the bird's cage when someone opens the bird's cage's door.
  How happy Hansel and Gretel were! Hansel and Gretel threw Hansel and Gretel's arms around each other's necks, jumped with joy, and kissed one another.
  Because Hansel and Gretel now had nothing to fear, Hansel and Gretel went into the witch's house.
  In every corner were chests of pearls and precious stones.
  "These are better than pebbles," said Hansel, filling Hansel's pockets.
  Gretel said, "Gretel will take some home with Gretel as well," and Gretel filled Gretel's apron full.
 "But now Hansel and Gretel must leave," said Hansel, "and get out of these witch-woods."
  After walking a few hours Hansel and Gretel arrived at a large body of water.
  "Hansel and Gretel cannot get across," said Hansel.
  "Hansel cannot see a walkway or a bridge."
  "There are no boats here," answered Gretel, "but there is the white duck .
  If Gretel asks the white duck, the white duck will help Hansel and Gretel across."
  Then Gretel called out "Duckling, duckling,Here stand Gretel and Hansel.
  Neither a walkway nor a bridge,Take Hansel and Gretel onto the white duck's white back.
  The white duck came up to Hansel and Gretel, and Hansel climbed onto the white duck, then asked Gretel to sit down next to Hansel.
  "No," answered Gretel.
  "That would be too heavy for the the white duck.
  the white duck should take Hansel and Gretel across one at a time."
  That is what the white duck did, and when Hansel and Gretel were safely on the other side, and had walked on a little while, the woods grew more and more familiar to Hansel and Gretel, 
  and finally Hansel and Gretel saw the father's house in the distance.
  Hansel and Gretel began to run, rushed inside, and threw Hansel and Gretel's arms around the father's neck.
  The father had not had even one happy hour since the father had left Hansel and Gretel in the woods.
  However, the wife had died.
  Gretel shook out Gretel's apron, scattering pearls and precious stones around the room, and Hansel added to them by throwing one handful after the other from Hansel's pockets.
 Now all Hansel and Gretel's cares were at an end, and Hansel and Gretel lived happily together.
 