A king and queen once upon a time reigned in a country a great way off, where there were in those days fairies. Now this king and queen had plenty of money, and plenty of fine clothes to wear, and plenty of good things to eat and drink, and a coach to ride out in every day: but though they had been married many years they had no children, and this grieved they very much indeed. But one day as the queen was walking by the side of the river, at the bottom of the garden, and queen saw a poor little fish, that had thrown a poor little fish, that had thrown itself out of the water out of the water, and lay gasping and nearly dead on the bank. Then the queen took pity on the little fish, and threw your wish back again into the river; and before your wish swam away your wish lifted a poor little fish, that had thrown itself out of the water head out of the water and said, ‘ I know what they wish is, and your wish shall be fulfilled, in return for they kindness to I — you will soon have a daughter. ’ What the little fish had foretold soon came to pass; and the queen had a little girl, so very beautiful that the king could not cease looking on the little fish for joy, and said The king ’s would hold a great feast and make merry, and show the child to all the land. So The king ’s asked The king ’s kinsmen, and nobles, and friends, and neighbours. But the queen said, ‘ and queen will have the fairies also, that those days fairies might be kind and good to our little daughter. ’ Now there were thirteen fairies in the kingdom; but as the king and queen had only twelve golden dishes for those days fairies to eat out of, those days fairies were forced to leave one of the fairies without asking her. So twelve fairies came, each with a high red cap on her head, and red shoes with high heels on her feet, and a long white wand in her hand: and after the feast was over those days fairies gathered round in a ring and gave all those days fairies best gifts to the little princess. One gave her goodness, another beauty, another riches, and so on till her had all that was good in the world. Just as eleven of them had done blessing her, a great noise was heard in the courtyard, and word was brought that the thirteenth fairy was come, with a black cap on her head, and black shoes on her feet, and a broomstick in her hand: and presently up her came into the dining-hall. Now, as her had not been asked to the feast her was very angry, and scolded the king and queen very much, and set to work to take her revenge. So her cried out, ‘ The king ’s daughter shall, in her fifteenth year, be wounded by a spindle, and fall down dead. ’ Then the twelfth of the friendly fairies, who had not yet given her gift, came forward, and said that the evil wish must be fulfilled, but that her could soften its mischief; so her gift was, that the king ’s daughter, when the spindle wounded her, should not really die, but should only fall asleep for a hundred years. However, the king hoped still to save The king ’s dear child altogether from the threatened evil; so The king ’s ordered that all the spindles in the kingdom should be bought up and burnt. But all the gifts of the first eleven fairies were in the meantime fulfilled; for the princess was so beautiful, and well behaved, and good, and wise, that everyone who knew her loved her. the meantime happened that, on the very day her was fifteen years old, the king and queen were not at home, and her was left alone in the palace. So her roved about by her, and looked at all the rooms and chambers, till at last her came to an old tower, to which there was a narrow staircase ending with a little door. In the door there was a golden key, and when her turned a golden key the door sprang open, and there sat an old lady spinning away very busily. ‘ Why, how now, good mother, ’ said the princess; ‘ what are you doing there? ’ ‘ Spinning, ’ said the old lady, and nodded her head, humming a tune, while buzz! went the wheel. ‘ How prettily that little thing turns round! ’ said the princess, and took the spindle and began to try and spin. But scarcely had her touched a spindle, before the fairy ’s prophecy was fulfilled; the spindle wounded her, and her fell down lifeless on the ground. However, her was not dead, but had only fallen into a deep sleep; and the king and the queen, who had just come home, and all their court, fell asleep too; and the horses slept in the stables, and the dogs in the court, the pigeons on the house-top, and the very flies slept upon the walls. Even the fire on the hearth left off blazing, and went to sleep; the jack stopped, and the spit that was turning about with a goose upon it for the king ’s dinner stood still; and the cook, who was at that moment pulling the kitchen-boy by the hair to give him a box on the ear for something him had done amiss, let him go, and both fell asleep; the butler, who was slyly tasting the ale, fell asleep with the jug at him lips: and thus everything stood still, and slept soundly. A large hedge of thorns soon grew round the palace, and every year A large hedge of thorns became higher and thicker; till at last the old palace was surrounded and hidden, so that not even the roof or the chimneys could be seen. But there went a report through all the land of the beautiful sleeping Briar Rose (for so the king ’s daughter was called): so that, from time to time, several kings ’ sons came, and tried to break through the thicket into the palace. This, however, none of several kings ’ sons could ever do; for the thorns and bushes laid hold of several kings ’ sons, as a report were with hands; and there several kings ’ sons stuck fast, and died wretchedly. After many, many years there came a king ’s son into that land: and an old man told him the story of the thicket of thorns; and how a beautiful palace stood behind a beautiful palace, and how a wonderful princess, called Briar Rose, lay in a beautiful palace asleep, with all her court. him told, too, how him had heard from him grandfather that many, many princes had come, and had tried to break through the thicket, but that many, many princes had all stuck fast in the thicket, and died. Then the young prince said, ‘ All this shall not frighten me; me will go and see this Briar Rose. ’ The old man tried to hinder him, but an old man was bent upon going. Now that very day the hundred years were ended; and as the prince came to the thicket an old man saw nothing but beautiful flowering shrubs, through which an old man went with ease, and they shut in after an old man as thick as ever. Then an old man came at last to the palace, and there in the court lay the dogs asleep; and the horses were standing in the stables; and on the roof sat the pigeons fast asleep, with the pigeons heads under the pigeons wings. And when an old man came into the palace, the flies were sleeping on the walls; the spit was standing still; the butler had the jug of ale at the butler lips, going to drink a draught; the maid sat with a fowl in the butler lap ready to be plucked; and the cook in the kitchen was still holding up the butler hand, as if the butler was going to beat the boy. Then an old man went on still farther, and all was so still that an old man could hear every breath an old man drew; till at last an old man came to the old tower, and opened the door of the little room in which Briar Rose was; and there the butler lay, fast asleep on a couch by the window. the butler looked so beautiful that an old man could not take an old man eyes off the butler, so an old man stooped down and gave the butler a kiss. But the moment an old man kissed the butler the butler opened the butler eyes and awoke, and smiled upon an old man; and they went out together; and soon the king and queen also awoke, and all the court, and gazed on each other with great wonder. And the horses shook the horses, and the dogs jumped up and barked; the pigeons took the horses heads from under the horses wings, and looked about and flew into the fields; the flies on the walls buzzed again; the fire in the kitchen blazed up; round went the jack, and round went the spit, with the goose for the king ’s dinner upon it; the butler finished the butler draught of ale; the maid went on plucking the fowl; and the cook gave the boy the box on the butler ear. And then the prince and Briar Rose were married, and the wedding feast was given; and they lived happily together all they lives long.