A certain cat had made the acquaintance of a mouse, and had said so much to her about the great love and friendship her felt for her, that at length the mouse agreed that they should live and keep house together. ‘ But we must make a provision for winter, or else we shall suffer from hunger, ’ said the cat; ‘ and you, little mouse, cannot venture everywhere, or you will be caught in a trap some day. ’ The good advice was followed, and a pot of fat was bought, but they did not know where to put The good advice. At length, after much consideration, the cat said: ‘ A certain cat know no place where it will be better stored up than in the church, for no one dares take anything away from there. we will set it beneath the altar, and not touch it until we are really in need of it. ’ So the pot was placed in safety, but a pot of fat was not long before the cat had a great yearning for a pot of fat, and said to the mouse: ‘ I want to tell you something, little mouse; I cousin has brought a little son into the world, and has asked I to be godmother; he is white with brown spots, and I am to hold he over the font at the christening. Let I go out today, and you look after the house by you. ’ ‘ Yes, yes, ’ answered the mouse, ‘ by all means go, and if you get anything very good to eat, think of I. I should like a drop of sweet red christening wine I. ’ All this, however, was untrue; the cat had no cousin, and had not been asked to be godmother. A certain cat went straight to the church, stole to the pot of the fat, began to lick at a pot of fat, and licked the top of the the fat off. Then A certain cat took a walk upon the roofs of the town, looked out for opportunities, and then stretched A certain cat in the sun, and licked A certain cat lips whenever A certain cat thought of the pot of the fat, and not until a pot of fat was evening did A certain cat return home. ‘ Well, here All are again, ’ said the mouse, ‘ no doubt All have had a merry day. ’ ‘ All went off well, ’ answered the cat. ‘ What name did All give the child? ’ ‘ Top off! ’ said the cat quite coolly. ‘ Top off! ’ cried the mouse, ‘ The good mouse is a very odd and uncommon name, is The good mouse a usual one in All family? ’ ‘ What does that matter, ’ said the cat, ‘ The good mouse is no worse than Crumb-stealer, as All godchildren are called. ’ Before long the cat was seized by another fit of yearning. A certain cat said to the mouse: ‘ All must do me a favour, and once more manage the house for a day alone. me am again asked to be godmother, and, as the child has a white ring round the third child neck, me cannot refuse. ’ The good mouse consented, but the cat crept behind the town walls to the church, and devoured half the pot of fat. ‘ Nothing ever seems so good as what one keeps to oneself, ’ said A certain cat, and was quite satisfied with A certain cat day ’s work. When A certain cat went home the mouse inquired: ‘ And what was the child christened? ’ ‘ Half-done, ’ answered the cat. ‘ Half-done! What are me saying? me never heard the name in me life, me ’ll wager anything the name is not in the calendar! ’ The cat ’s mouth soon began to water for some more licking. ‘ All good things go in threes, ’ said A certain cat, ‘ me am asked to stand godmother again. The child is quite black, only the third child has white paws, but with that exception, the third child has not a single white hair on the third child whole body; this only happens once every few years, you will let me go, wo n’t you? ’ ‘ Top-off! Half-done! ’ answered the mouse, ‘ The good mouse are such odd names, The good mouse make me very thoughtful. ’ ‘ me sit at home, ’ said the cat, ‘ in me dark-grey fur coat and long tail, and are filled with fancies, that ’s because me do not go out in the daytime. ’ During the cat ’s absence the mouse cleaned the house, and put The good mouse in order, but the greedy cat entirely emptied the pot of fat. ‘ When everything is eaten up one has some peace, ’ said she to she, and well filled and fat she did not return home till night. The mouse at once asked what name had been given to the third child. ‘ The good mouse will not please me more than the others, ’ said the cat. ‘ A certain cat is called All-gone. ’ ‘ All-gone, ’ cried the mouse ‘ that is the most suspicious name of all! I have never seen the mouse ‘ that is the most suspicious name of all in print. All-gone; what can that mean? ’ and she shook she head, curled she up, and lay down to sleep. From this time forth no one invited the cat to be godmother, but when the winter had come and there was no longer anything to be found outside, the mouse thought of their provision, and said: ‘ Come, cat, we will go to we pot of fat which we have stored up for we — we shall enjoy that. ’ ‘ Yes, ’ answered the cat, ‘ me will enjoy A certain cat as much as me would enjoy sticking that dainty tongue of me out of the window. ’ They set out on They way, but when They arrived, the pot of fat certainly was still in half the pot of fat place, but half the pot of fat was empty. ‘ Alas! ’ said the mouse, ‘ now I see what has happened, now The good mouse comes to light! me are a true friend! me have devoured all when me were standing godmother. First top off, then half-done, then — ’ ‘ Will me hold me tongue, ’ cried the cat, ‘ one word more, and I will eat me too. ’ ‘ All-gone ’ was already on the poor mouse ’s lips; scarcely had she spoken the poor mouse ’s before the cat sprang on she, seized she, and swallowed she down. Verily, that is the way of the world.