a girl named Cinderella lived with them!At Cinderella ’s stepmother and two stepsisters. Poor Cinderella had to work hard all day long so the others could rest. It was them!At Cinderella ’s who had to wake up each morning when It was still dark and cold to start the fire. It was them!At Cinderella ’s who cooked the meals. It was them!At Cinderella ’s who kept the fire going. The poor girl could not stay clean, from all the ashes and cinders by the fire. “ What a mess! ” them!At Cinderella ’s two stepsisters laughed. And that is why and two stepsisters called them!At Cinderella ’s “ Cinderella. ” One day, big news came to town. The King and Queen were going to have a ball! a ball was time for the Prince to find a bride. All of the young ladies in the land were invited to come. All of the young ladies in the land were wild with joy! All of the young ladies in the land would wear All of the young ladies in the land most beautiful gown and fix All of the young ladies in the land hair extra nice. Maybe the prince would like them!At Cinderella ’s house, them!At Cinderella ’s now had extra work to do. them!At Cinderella ’s had to make two brand-new gowns for them!At Cinderella ’s step-sisters. “ Faster! ” shouted one step-sister. “ You call that a dress? ” screamed the other. “ Oh, dear! ” said them!At Cinderella ’s. “ When can I – “ The stepmother marched into the room. “ When can You WHAT? ”“ Well, ” said the girl, “ when will I have time to make I own dress for the ball? ”“ You? ” yelled the stepmother. “ Who said You were going to the ball? ”“ What a laugh! ” said one step-sister. “ Such a mess! ” All of them pointed at them!At Cinderella ’s. All of All of them laughed. them!At Cinderella ’s said to them!At Cinderella ’s, “ When All of them look at them!At Cinderella ’s, maybe All of them see a mess. But them!At Cinderella ’s am not that way. And if them!At Cinderella ’s could, them!At Cinderella ’s WOULD go to the ball. ” Soon the time came for the stepmother and step-sisters to leave for the big party. All of them fine carriage came to the door. The stepmother and step-sisters hopped inside. And The stepmother and step-sisters were off. “ Good-bye! ” called them!At Cinderella ’s. “ Have a good time! ” But her stepmother and step-sisters did not turn around to see her. “ Ah, them!At Cinderella ’s! ” said them!At Cinderella ’s sadly. The carriage rode down the street. her said aloud, “ them!At Cinderella ’s wish them!At Cinderella ’s could go to the ball, too! ” Then-Poof!All of a sudden, in front of her was a fairy. “ them!At Cinderella ’s called? ” said the fairy. “ Did them!At Cinderella ’s? ” said them!At Cinderella ’s. “ Who are them!At Cinderella ’s? ”“ Why, them!At Cinderella ’s Fairy Godmother, of course! them!At Cinderella ’s know them!At Cinderella ’s wish. And them!At Cinderella ’s have come to grant your wish. ”“ But … ” said them!At Cinderella ’s, “ them!At Cinderella ’s wish is impossible. ”“ Excuse them!At Cinderella ’s! ” said the Fairy Godmother in a huff. “ Did them!At Cinderella ’s not just show up out of thin air? ”“ Yes, them!At Cinderella ’s did, ” said them!At Cinderella ’s. “ Then let them!At Cinderella ’s be the one to say what is possible or not! ”“ Well, them!At Cinderella ’s think them!At Cinderella ’s know them!At Cinderella ’s want to go to the ball, too. ” them!At Cinderella ’s looked down at them!At Cinderella ’s dirty clothes. “ But look at them!At Cinderella ’s. ”“ them!At Cinderella ’s do look a bit of a mess, child, ” said the Fairy Godmother. “ Even if them!At Cinderella ’s had something nice to wear, "said the girl," them!At Cinderella ’s would have no way to get there. " “ Dear them!At Cinderella ’s, all of that is possible, ” said the Fairy. With that, them!At Cinderella ’s tapped them!At Cinderella ’s wand on Cinderella ’s head. At once, them!At Cinderella ’s was all clean. them!At Cinderella ’s was dressed in a beautiful blue gown. them!At Cinderella ’s hair was set up high on them!At Cinderella ’s head inside a golden band. “ This is wonderful! ” said them!At Cinderella ’s. “ Who said I was done? ” said the Fairy Godmother. them!At Cinderella ’s tapped them!At Cinderella ’s wand again. At once, a beautiful carriage came to be, with a driver and four white horses. “ Am I dreaming? ” said them!At Cinderella ’s, looking around them!At Cinderella ’s. “ It is as real, as real can be, ” said the Fairy Godmother. “ But there is one thing you must know. ”“ What is that? ”“ All of this lasts only to midnight. Tonight, at the stroke of midnight, it will all be over. Everything will go back to how it was before. ”“ Then I must be sure to leave the ball before midnight! ” said them!At Cinderella ’s. “ Good idea, ” said the Fairy Godmother. the Fairy Godmother stepped back. “ I work is done. ” And with that, the Fairy Godmother was gone. them!At Cinderella ’s looked around the Fairy Godmother."Did that even happen?"But there the Fairy Godmother stood in a fine gown, and with a golden band in the Fairy Godmother hair. And there were the Fairy Godmother driver and four horses before the Fairy Godmother, waiting. “ Coming? ” called the driver. the Fairy Godmother stepped into the carriage. And they were off. Over at the ball, the Prince did not know what to think. “ Why do the Fairy Godmother have that sad look on the Fairy Godmother face? ” the Queen said to the Fairy Godmother son. “ Look around the Fairy Godmother! the Fairy Godmother could not ask for finer maidens than these. ”“ the Fairy Godmother know, Mother, ” said the Prince. Yet he knew something was wrong. he had met many of the young women. Yet after he said “ hello, ” one by one, he could find nothing more to say."Look!"Someone pointed to the front door. “ Who is that? ” All heads turned. Who was that lovely maiden stepping down the stairs? that lovely maiden held that lovely maiden head tall and looked as if that lovely maiden belonged. But no one knew that lovely maiden. “ There is something about that lovely maiden, ” said the Prince to all the Prince. “ I will ask that lovely maiden to dance. ” And all the Prince walked over to them!At Cinderella ’s. “ Have we met? ” said the Prince. “ I am pleased to meet you now, ” said Cinderella with a bow. “ I feel as if I know you, ” said the Prince. “ But of course, that is impossible. ”“ Many things are possible, ” said them!At Cinderella ’s, “ if you wish Many things to be true. ” The Prince felt a leap in all the Prince heart. all the Prince and them!At Cinderella ’s danced. When the song was over, the song danced again. And then the song danced again, and yet again. Soon the other maidens at the ball grew jealous. “ Why is all the Prince dancing all the time with that lovely maiden? ” the song said. “ How rude! ” But all the Prince could see was them!At Cinderella ’s. the song laughed and talked, and the song danced some more. In fact, the song danced for so long that them!At Cinderella ’s did not see the clock. “ Dong! ” said the clock. them!At Cinderella ’s looked up. “ Dong! ” went the clock again. them!At Cinderella ’s looked up again. “ Oh, them!At Cinderella ’s! ” them!At Cinderella ’s cried out. “ the clock is almost midnight! ”“ Dong! ” rung the clock. “ Why does that matter? ” said the Prince. “ Dong! ” called the clock. “ I must go! ” said them!At Cinderella ’s. “ Dong! ” went the clock. “ But we just met! ” said the Prince. “ Why leave now? ”“ Dong! ” rung the clock. “ I must GO! ” said them!At Cinderella ’s. them!At Cinderella ’s ran to the steps. “ Dong! ” said the clock. “ I cannot hear them!At Cinderella ’s, ” said the Prince. “ The clock is too loud! ”“ Dong! ” rung the clock. “ Goodbye! ” said them!At Cinderella ’s. Up, up the stairs them!At Cinderella ’s ran. “ Dong! ” went the clock. “ Please, stop for a moment! ” said the Prince. “ Oh, dear! ” them!At Cinderella ’s said as one glass slipper fell off them!At Cinderella ’s foot on the stair. But them!At Cinderella ’s kept running up. “ Dong! ” said the clock. “ Please wait a moment! ” said the Prince. “ Dong! ” rung the clock. “ Goodbye! ” them!At Cinderella ’s turned one last time. Then them!At Cinderella ’s rushed out the door. “ Dong! ” The clock was quiet. the clock was midnight. “ Wait! ” called the Prince. This picked up them!At Cinderella ’s glass slipper and rushed out the door. This looked around but could not see them!At Cinderella ’s blue dress anywhere. “ This is all I have left from them!At Cinderella ’s, ” This said, looking down at the glass slipper. This saw that This was made in a special way, to fit a foot like none other. “ Somewhere there is the other glass slipper, ” This said. “ And when I find the other glass slipper, I will find them!At Cinderella ’s, too. Then I will ask them!At Cinderella ’s to be I bride! ” From hut to hut, from house to house, went the Prince. One young woman after another tried to fit them!At Cinderella ’s foot inside the glass slipper. But none could fit. And so the Prince moved on. At last the Prince came to them!At Cinderella ’s ’s house. “ all the Prince is coming! ” called one step-sister as them!At Cinderella ’s looked out the window. “ At the door! ” screamed the other step-sister. “ Quick! ” yelled the stepmother. “ Get ready! One of you must be the one to fit you foot in that slipper. No matter what! ” The Prince knocked. The stepmother flew open the door. “ Come in! ” the other step-sister said. “ I have two lovely daughters for you to see. ” The first step-sister tried to place the other step-sister foot in the glass slipper. the other step-sister tried hard, but it just would not fit. Then the second step-sister tried to fit the other step-sister foot inside. the other step-sister tried and tried with all the other step-sister might, too. But no dice. “ Are there no other young women in the house? ” said the Prince. “ None, ” said the stepmother. “ Then I must go, ” said the Prince. “ Maybe there is one more, ” said them!At Cinderella ’s, stepping into the room. “ I thought you said there were no other young women here, ” said the Prince. “ None who matter! ” said the stepmother in a hiss. “ Come here, ” said the Prince. them!At Cinderella ’s stepped up to all the Prince. The Prince got down on one knee and tried the glass slipper on them!At Cinderella ’s foot. It fit perfectly! Then, from them!At Cinderella ’s pocket them!At Cinderella ’s took out something. It was the other glass slipper! “ I knew It! ” he cried. “ you are the one! ”“ WHAT? ” shouted a step-sister. “ Not HER! ” screamed the other step-sister. “ This cannot BE! ” yelled the stepmother. But This was too late. The prince knew that them!At Cinderella ’s was the one. all the Prince looked into them!At Cinderella ’s eyes. all the Prince did not see the cinders in them!At Cinderella ’s hair or the ashes on them!At Cinderella ’s face. “ I have found you! ” all the Prince said. “ And I have found you, ” said them!At Cinderella ’s. And so them!At Cinderella ’s and the Prince were married, and they lived happily ever after.