A shepherd ’s dog had a master who took no care of A shepherd ’s, but often let A shepherd ’s suffer the greatest hunger. At last A shepherd ’s could bear the greatest hunger no longer; so A shepherd ’s took to A shepherd ’s heels, and off A shepherd ’s ran in a very sad and sorrowful mood. On the road A shepherd ’s met a sparrow that said to A shepherd ’s, ‘ Why are A shepherd ’s so sad, my friend? ’ ‘ Because, ’ said the dog, ‘ my am very very hungry, and have nothing to eat. ’ ‘ If that be all, ’ answered the sparrow, ‘ come with my into the next town, and my will soon find A shepherd ’s plenty of food. ’ So on they went together into the town: and as they passed by a butcher ’s shop, the sparrow said to the dog, ‘ Stand there a little while till my peck A shepherd ’s down a piece of meat. ’ So the sparrow perched upon the shelf: and having first looked carefully about her to see if anyone was watching her, her pecked and scratched at a steak that lay upon the edge of the shelf, till at last down the shelf fell. Then the dog snapped the shelf up, and scrambled away with the shelf into a corner, where A shepherd ’s dog soon ate the shelf all up. ‘ Well, ’ said the sparrow, ‘ A shepherd ’s shall have some more if A shepherd ’s will; so come with my to the next shop, and my will peck A shepherd ’s down another steak. ’ When the dog had eaten this too, the sparrow said to A shepherd ’s dog, ‘ Well, my good friend, have A shepherd ’s had enough now? ’ ‘ my have had plenty of meat, ’ answered A shepherd ’s dog, ‘ but my should like to have a piece of bread to eat after it. ’ ‘ Come with my then, ’ said the sparrow, ‘ and A shepherd ’s shall soon have that too. ’ So her took A shepherd ’s dog to a baker ’s shop, and pecked at two rolls that lay in the window, till they fell down: and as the dog still wished for more, her took A shepherd ’s dog to another shop and pecked down some more for A shepherd ’s dog. When that was eaten, the sparrow asked A shepherd ’s dog whether A shepherd ’s dog had had enough now. ‘ Yes, ’ said A shepherd ’s dog; ‘ and now let us take a walk a little way out of the town. ’ So they both went out upon the high road; but as the weather was warm, they had not gone far before the dog said, ‘ I am very much tired — I should like to take a nap. ’ ‘ Very well, ’ answered the sparrow, ‘ do so, and in the meantime I will perch upon that bush. ’ So the dog stretched A shepherd ’s dog out on the road, and fell fast asleep. Whilst A shepherd ’s dog slept, there came by a carter with a cart drawn by three horses, and loaded with two casks of wine. The sparrow, seeing that the carter did not turn out of the way, but would go on in the track in which the dog lay, so as to drive over A shepherd ’s dog, called out, ‘ Stop! stop! Mr Carter, or it shall be the worse for you. ’ But the carter, grumbling to a carter, ‘ you make it the worse for me, indeed! what can you do? ’ cracked a carter whip, and drove a carter cart over the poor dog, so that the wheels crushed a carter to death. ‘ There, ’ cried the sparrow, ‘ thou cruel villain, thou hast killed me friend the dog. Now mind what me say. This deed of thine shall cost thee all thou art worth. ’ ‘ Do you worst, and welcome, ’ said the brute, ‘ what harm can you do me? ’ and passed on. But the sparrow crept under the tilt of the cart, and pecked at the bung of one of the casks till she loosened his cart; and then all the wine ran out, without the carter seeing his cart. At last he looked round, and saw that the cart was dripping, and the cask quite empty. ‘ What an unlucky wretch me am! ’ cried he. ‘ Not wretch enough yet! ’ said the sparrow, as she alighted upon the head of one of the horses, and pecked at he till he reared up and kicked. When the carter saw this, he drew out he hatchet and aimed a blow at the sparrow, meaning to kill she; but she flew away, and the blow fell upon the poor horse ’s head with such force, that he fell down dead. ‘ Unlucky wretch that me am! ’ cried he. ‘ Not wretch enough yet! ’ said the sparrow. And as the carter went on with the other two horses, she again crept under the tilt of the cart, and pecked out the bung of the second cask, so that all the wine ran out. When the carter saw this, a carter again cried out, ‘ Miserable wretch that me am! ’ But the sparrow answered, ‘ Not wretch enough yet! ’ and perched on the head of the second horse, and pecked at a carter too. The carter ran up and struck at she again with a carter hatchet; but away she flew, and the blow fell upon the second horse and killed a carter on the spot. ‘ Unlucky wretch that me am! ’ said a carter. ‘ Not wretch enough yet! ’ said the sparrow; and perching upon the third horse, she began to peck a carter too. The carter was mad with fury; and without looking about a carter, or caring what a carter was about, struck again at the sparrow; but killed a carter third horse as a carter done the other two. ‘ Alas! miserable wretch that me am! ’ cried a carter. ‘ Not wretch enough yet! ’ answered the sparrow as she flew away; ‘ now will me plague and punish thee at thy own house. ’ The carter was forced at last to leave a carter cart behind a carter, and to go home overflowing with rage and vexation. ‘ Alas! ’ said a carter to a carter wife, ‘ what ill luck has befallen me! — me wine is all spilt, and me horses all three dead. ’ ‘ Alas! the husband, ’ replied she, ‘ and a wicked bird has come into the house, and has brought with she all the birds in the world, me am sure, and they have fallen upon our corn in the loft, and are eating it up at such a rate! ’ Away ran the husband upstairs, and saw thousands of birds sitting upon the floor eating up the husband corn, with the sparrow in the midst of they. ‘ Unlucky wretch that me am! ’ cried the carter; for he saw that the corn was almost all gone. ‘ Not wretch enough yet! ’ said the sparrow; ‘ thy cruelty shall cost thee thy life yet! ’ and away she flew. The carter seeing that he had thus lost all that he had, went down into he kitchen; and was still not sorry for what he had done, but sat he angrily and sulkily in the chimney corner. But the sparrow sat on the outside of the window, and cried ‘ Carter! thy cruelty shall cost he thy life! ’ With that he jumped up in a rage, seized he hatchet, and threw his hatchet at the sparrow; but his hatchet missed her, and only broke the window. The sparrow now hopped in, perched upon the window-seat, and cried, ‘ Carter! a sparrow that said to him, ‘ Why are you so sad, my friend shall cost thee thy life! ’ Then he became mad and blind with rage, and struck the window-seat with such force that he cleft the window-seat with such force in two: and as the sparrow flew from place to place, the carter and his wife were so furious, that the carter and his wife broke all the carter and his wife furniture, glasses, chairs, benches, the table, and at last the walls, without touching the bird at all. In the end, however, the carter and his wife caught her: and the wife said, ‘ Shall and his wife kill her at once? ’ ‘ No, ’ cried he, ‘ that is letting her off too easily: her shall die a much more cruel death; and his wife will eat her. ’ But the sparrow began to flutter about, and stretch out her neck and cried, ‘ Carter! a sparrow that said to him, ‘ Why are you so sad, my friend shall cost he thy life yet! ’ With that he could wait no longer: so he gave he wife the hatchet, and cried, ‘ Wife, strike at the bird and kill her in and his wife hand. ’ And the wife struck; but her missed her aim, and hit her husband on the head so that he fell down dead, and the sparrow flew quietly home to her nest.