There was once a fisherman who lived with a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside. The fisherman used to go out all day long a-fishing; and one day, as a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside sat on the shore with a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside rod, looking at the sparkling waves and watching a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside line, all on a sudden a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside float was dragged away deep into the water: and in drawing his float up a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside pulled out a great fish. But the fish said, ‘ Pray let me live! me am not a real fish; me am an enchanted prince: put me in the water again, and let me go! ’ ‘ Oh, ho! ’ said the man, ‘ you need not make so many words about the matter; me will have nothing to do with a fish that can talk: so swim away, sir, as soon as you please! ’ Then a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside put a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside back into the water, and the fish darted straight down to the bottom, and left a long streak of blood behind a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside on the wave. When the fisherman went home to a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside wife in the pigsty, a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside told a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside how a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside had caught a great fish, and how a great fish had told a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside a great fish was an enchanted prince, and how, on hearing a great fish speak, a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside had let a great fish go again. ‘ Did not you ask a great fish for anything? ’ said the wife, ‘ we live very wretchedly here, in this nasty dirty pigsty; do go back and tell the fish we want a snug little cottage. ’ The fisherman did not much like the business: however, a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside went to the seashore; and when a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside came back there the water looked all yellow and green. And a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside stood at the water ’s edge, and said: ‘ O man of the sea! Hearken to me! me wife Ilsabill Will have My wife Ilsabill own will, And hath sent me to beg a boon of a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside! ’ Then the fish came swimming to a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside, and said, ‘ Well, what is My wife Ilsabill will? What does My wife Ilsabill wife want? ’ ‘ Ah! ’ said the fisherman, ‘ My wife Ilsabill says that when My wife Ilsabill had caught My wife Ilsabill, My wife Ilsabill ought to have asked My wife Ilsabill for something before My wife Ilsabill let My wife Ilsabill go; My wife Ilsabill does not like living any longer in the pigsty, and wants a snug little cottage. ’ ‘ Go home, then, ’ said the fish; ‘ My wife Ilsabill is in the cottage already! ’ So the man went home, and saw the poor man wife standing at the door of a nice trim little cottage. ‘ Come in, come in! ’ said My wife Ilsabill; ‘ is not this much better than the filthy pigsty we had? ’ And there was a parlour, and a bedchamber, and a kitchen; and behind the cottage there was a little garden, planted with all sorts of flowers and fruits; and there was a courtyard behind, full of ducks and chickens. ‘ Ah! ’ said the fisherman, ‘ how happily we shall live now! ’ ‘ we will try to do so, at least, ’ said his wife. Everything went right for a week or two, and then Dame Ilsabill said, ‘ Husband, there is not near room enough for we in this cottage; the courtyard and the garden are a great deal too small; I should like to have a large stone castle to live in: go to the fish again and tell Husband to give we a castle. ’ ‘ Wife, ’ said the fisherman, ‘ I do n’t like to go to a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside again, for perhaps a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside will be angry; we ought to be easy with this pretty cottage to live in. ’ ‘ Nonsense! ’ said the wife; ‘ a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside will do it very willingly, I know; go along and try! ’ The fisherman went, but a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside heart was very heavy: and when a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside came to the sea, his heart looked blue and gloomy, though his heart was very calm; and a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside went close to the edge of the waves, and said: ‘ O man of the sea! Hearken to I! I wife Ilsabill Will have My wife Ilsabill own will, And hath sent I to beg a boon of a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside! ’‘ Well, what does My wife Ilsabill want now? ’ said the fish. ‘ Ah! ’ said the man, dolefully, ‘ I wife wants to live in a stone castle. ’ ‘ Go home, then, ’ said the fish; ‘ My wife Ilsabill is standing at the gate of a great fish already. ’ So away went the fisherman, and found a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside wife standing before the gate of a great castle. ‘ See, ’ said My wife Ilsabill, ‘ is not this grand? ’ With that they went into the castle together, and found a great many servants there, and the rooms all richly furnished, and full of golden chairs and tables; and behind the castle was a garden, and around a garden was a park half a mile long, full of sheep, and goats, and hares, and deer; and in the courtyard were stables and cow-houses. ‘ Well, ’ said the man, ‘ now they will live cheerful and happy in this beautiful castle for the rest of they lives. ’ ‘ Perhaps they may, ’ said the wife; ‘ but let they sleep upon it, before they make up they minds to that. ’ So they went to bed. The next morning when Dame Ilsabill awoke it was broad daylight, and My wife Ilsabill jogged the fisherman with My wife Ilsabill elbow, and said, ‘ Get up, husband, and bestir all the land, for they must be king of all the land. ’ ‘ Wife, wife, ’ said the man, ‘ why should they wish to be the king? I will not be king. ’ ‘ Then I will, ’ said My wife Ilsabill. ‘ But, wife, ’ said the fisherman, ‘ how can My wife Ilsabill be king — the fish cannot make My wife Ilsabill a king? ’ ‘ Husband, ’ said My wife Ilsabill, ‘ say no more about a great fish, but go and try! I will be king. ’ So the man went away quite sorrowful to think that the poor man wife should want to be king. This time the sea looked a dark grey colour, and was overspread with curling waves and the ridges of foam as the poor man cried out: ‘ O man of the sea! Hearken to I! I wife Ilsabill Will have My wife Ilsabill own will, And hath sent I to beg a boon of I! ’‘ Well, what would My wife Ilsabill have now? ’ said the fish. ‘ Alas! ’ said the poor man, ‘ I wife wants to be king. ’ ‘ Go home, ’ said the fish; ‘ My wife Ilsabill is king already. ’ Then the fisherman went home; and as a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside came close to the palace a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside saw a troop of soldiers, and heard the sound of drums and trumpets. And when a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside went in a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside saw a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside wife sitting on a throne of gold and diamonds, with a golden crown upon My wife Ilsabill head; and on each side of My wife Ilsabill stood six fair maidens, each a head taller than the other. ‘ Well, wife, ’ said the fisherman, ‘ are you king? ’ ‘ Yes, ’ said My wife Ilsabill, ‘ I am king. ’ And when a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside had looked at My wife Ilsabill for a long time, a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside said, ‘ Ah, wife! what a fine thing it is to be king! Now we shall never have anything more to wish for as long as we live. ’ ‘ I do n’t know how that may be, ’ said My wife Ilsabill; ‘ never is a long time. I am king, it is true; but I begin to be tired of that, and I think I should like to be emperor. ’ ‘ Alas, wife! why should you wish to be emperor? ’ said the fisherman. ‘ Husband, ’ said My wife Ilsabill, ‘ go to the fish! I say I will be emperor. ’ ‘ Ah, wife! ’ replied the fisherman, ‘ the fish cannot make an emperor, I am sure, and I should not like to ask a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside for such a thing. ’ ‘ I am king, ’ said My wife Ilsabill, ‘ and you are I slave; so go at once! ’ So the fisherman was forced to go; and a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside muttered as a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside went along, ‘ This will come to no good, This is too much to ask; the fish will be tired at last, and then we shall be sorry for what we have done. ’ a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside soon came to the seashore; and the water was quite black and muddy, and a mighty whirlwind blew over the waves and rolled them about, but a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside went as near as a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside could to the water ’s brink, and said: ‘ O man of the sea! Hearken to I! I wife Ilsabill Will have My wife Ilsabill own will, And hath sent I to beg a boon of a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside! ’‘ What would My wife Ilsabill have now? ’ said the fish. ‘ Ah! ’ said the fisherman, ‘ My wife Ilsabill wants to be emperor. ’ ‘ Go home, ’ said the fish; ‘ My wife Ilsabill is emperor already. ’ So a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside went home again; and as a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside came near a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside saw a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside wife Ilsabill sitting on a very lofty throne made of solid gold, with a great crown on My wife Ilsabill head full two yards high; and on each side of My wife Ilsabill stood My wife Ilsabill guards and attendants in a row, each one smaller than the other, from the tallest giant down to a little dwarf no bigger than my finger. And before My wife Ilsabill stood princes, and dukes, and earls: and the fisherman went up to My wife Ilsabill and said, ‘ Wife, are you emperor? ’ ‘ Yes, ’ said My wife Ilsabill, ‘ my am emperor. ’ ‘ Ah! ’ said the man, as a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside gazed upon My wife Ilsabill, ‘ what a fine thing it is to be emperor! ’ ‘ Husband, ’ said My wife Ilsabill, ‘ why should we stop at being emperor? my will be pope next. ’ ‘ O wife, wife! ’ said a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside, ‘ how can you be pope? there is but one pope at a time in Christendom. ’ ‘ Husband, ’ said My wife Ilsabill, ‘ my will be pope this very day. ’ ‘ But, ’ replied the husband, ‘ the fish cannot make you pope. ’ ‘ What nonsense! ’ said My wife Ilsabill; ‘ if a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside can make an emperor, a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside can make a pope: go and try a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside. ’ So the fisherman went. But when a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside came to the shore the wind was raging and the sea was tossed up and down in boiling waves, and the ships were in trouble, and rolled fearfully upon the tops of the billows. In the middle of the heavens there was a little piece of blue sky, but towards the south all was red, as if a dreadful storm was rising. At this sight the fisherman was dreadfully frightened, and a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside trembled so that a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside knees knocked together: but still a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside went down near to the shore, and said: ‘ O man of the sea! Hearken to my! my wife Ilsabill Will have My wife Ilsabill own will, And hath sent my to beg a boon of my! ’‘ What does My wife Ilsabill want now? ’ said the fish. ‘ Ah! ’ said the fisherman, ‘ my wife wants to be pope. ’ ‘ Go home, ’ said the fish; ‘ My wife Ilsabill is pope already. ’ Then the fisherman went home, and found My wife Ilsabill sitting on a throne that was two miles high. And My wife Ilsabill had three great crowns on My wife Ilsabill head, and around My wife Ilsabill stood all the pomp and power of the Church. And on each side of My wife Ilsabill were two rows of burning lights, of all sizes, the greatest as large as the highest and biggest tower in the world, and the least no larger than a small rushlight. ‘ Wife, ’ said the fisherman, as a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside looked at all this greatness, ‘ are you pope? ’ ‘ Yes, ’ said My wife Ilsabill, ‘ I am pope. ’ ‘ Well, wife, ’ replied a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside, ‘ it is a grand thing to be pope; and now you must be easy, for you can be nothing greater. ’ ‘ I will think about that, ’ said the wife. Then they went to bed: but Dame Ilsabill could not sleep all night for thinking what My wife Ilsabill should be next. At last, as My wife Ilsabill was dropping asleep, morning broke, and the sun rose. ‘ Ha! ’ thought My wife Ilsabill, as My wife Ilsabill woke up and looked at it through the window, ‘ after all I cannot prevent the sun rising. ’ At this thought My wife Ilsabill was very angry, and wakened My wife Ilsabill husband, and said, ‘ Husband, go to the fish and tell a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside I must be lord of the sun and moon. ’ The fisherman was half asleep, but the thought frightened a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside so much that a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside started and fell out of bed. ‘ Alas, wife! ’ said a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside, ‘ cannot you be easy with being pope? ’ ‘ No, ’ said My wife Ilsabill, ‘ I am very uneasy as long as the sun and moon rise without I leave. Go to the fish at once! ’ Then the man went shivering with fear; and as the poor man was going down to the shore a dreadful storm arose, so that the trees and the very rocks shook. And all the heavens became black with stormy clouds, and the lightnings played, and the thunders rolled; and you might have seen in the sea great black waves, swelling up like mountains with crowns of white foam upon their heads. And the fisherman crept towards the sea, and cried out, as well as a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside could: ‘ O man of the sea! Hearken to I! I wife Ilsabill Will have My wife Ilsabill own will, And hath sent I to beg a boon of I! ’‘ What does My wife Ilsabill want now? ’ said the fish. ‘ Ah! ’ said he, ‘ My wife Ilsabill wants to be lord of the sun and moon. ’ ‘ Go home, ’ said the fish, ‘ to your pigsty again. ’ And there they live to this very day.