One fine evening a young princess put on her bonnet and clogs, and went out to take a walk by her in a wood; and when her came to a cool spring of water, that rose in the midst of it, her sat her down to rest a while. Now her had a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything; and her was always tossing a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything up into the air, and catching a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything again as a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything fell. After a time her threw a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything up so high that her missed catching a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything as a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything fell; and the ball bounded away, and rolled along upon the ground, till at last a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything fell down into the spring. The princess looked into the spring after her ball, but a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything was very deep, so deep that her could not see the bottom of a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything. Then her began to bewail her loss, and said, ‘ Alas! if I could only get I ball again, I would give all I fine clothes and jewels, and everything that I have in the world. ’ Whilst her was speaking, a frog put this silly frog head out of the water, and said, ‘ Princess, why do I weep so bitterly? ’ ‘ Alas! ’ said her, ‘ what can I do for I, I nasty frog? I golden ball has fallen into the spring. ’ The frog said, ‘ I want not I pearls, and jewels, and fine clothes; but if I will love I, and let I live with I and eat from off I golden plate, and sleep upon I bed, I will bring I I ball again. ’ ‘ What nonsense, ’ thought the princess, ‘ this silly frog is talking! He can never even get out of the spring to visit I, though He may be able to get I ball for I, and therefore I will tell He He shall have what He asks. ’ So her said to the frog, ‘ Well, if I will bring I I ball, I will do all I ask. ’ Then the frog put his head down, and dived deep under the water; and after a little while his came up again, with the ball in his mouth, and threw this silly frog on the edge of the spring. As soon as the young princess saw her ball, her ran to pick a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything up; and her was so overjoyed to have a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything in her hand again, that her never thought of the frog, but ran home with a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything as fast as her could. The frog called after her, ‘ Stay, princess, and take I with I as I said, ’ But her did not stop to hear a word. The next day, just as the princess had sat down to dinner, her heard a strange noise — tap, tap — plash, plash — as if something was coming up the marble staircase: and soon afterwards there was a gentle knock at the door, and a little voice cried out and said: ‘ Open the door, I princess dear, Open the door to thy true love here! And mind the words that his and I said By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade. ’ Then the princess ran to the door and opened the door, my princess dear, and there her saw the frog, whom her had quite forgotten. At this sight her was sadly frightened, and shutting the door as fast as her could came back to her seat. The king, her father, seeing that something had frightened her, asked her what was the matter. ‘ There is a nasty frog, ’ said her, ‘ at the door, that lifted my ball for my out of the spring this morning: my told him that him should live with my here, thinking that him could never get out of the spring; but there him is at the door, and him wants to come in. ’ While her was speaking the frog knocked again at the door, and said: ‘ Open the door, my princess dear, Open the door to thy true love here! And mind the words that him and my said By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade. ’ Then the king said to the young princess, ‘ As you have given you word you must keep your word; so go and let him in. ’ her did so, and the frog hopped into the room, and then straight on — tap, tap — plash, plash — from the bottom of the room to the top, till him came up close to the table where the princess sat. ‘ Pray lift my upon chair, ’ said him to the princess, ‘ and let my sit next to you. ’ As soon as her had done this, the frog said, ‘ Put you plate nearer to my, that my may eat out of this silly frog. ’ This her did, and when him had eaten as much as him could, him said, ‘ Now my am tired; carry my upstairs, and put my into you bed. ’ And the princess, though very unwilling, took him up in her hand, and put him upon the pillow of her own bed, where him slept all night long. As soon as it was light him jumped up, hopped downstairs, and went out of the house. ‘ Now, then, ’ thought the princess, ‘ at last him is gone, and my shall be troubled with him no more. ’ But her was mistaken; for when the third night came again her heard the same tapping at the door; and the frog came once more, and said: ‘ Open the door, my princess dear, Open the door to thy true love here! And mind the words that him and my said By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade. ’ And when the princess opened the door the frog came in, and slept upon her pillow as before, till the morning broke. And the third night him did the same. But when the princess awoke on the following morning her was astonished to see, instead of the frog, a handsome prince, gazing on her with the most beautiful eyes her had ever seen, and standing at the head of her bed. him told her that him had been enchanted by a spiteful fairy, who had changed him into a frog; and that him had been fated so to abide till some princess should take him out of the spring, and let him eat from her plate, and sleep upon her bed for three nights. ‘ You, ’ said the prince, ‘ have broken a handsome prince cruel charm, and now a handsome prince have nothing to wish for but that You should go with a handsome prince into a handsome prince father ’s kingdom, where a handsome prince will marry You, and love You as long as You live. ’ The young princess, You may be sure, was not long in saying ‘ Yes ’ to all this; and as they spoke a gay coach drove up, with eight beautiful horses, decked with plumes of feathers and a golden harness; and behind the coach rode the prince ’s servant, faithful Heinrich, who had bewailed the misfortunes of him dear master during him enchantment so long and so bitterly, that him heart had well-nigh burst. they then took leave of the king, and got into the coach with eight horses, and all set out, full of joy and merriment, for the prince ’s kingdom, which they reached safely; and there they lived happily a great many years.