There was once a forester who went into the forest to hunt, and as a forester who went into the forest to hunt entered the forest a forester who went into the forest to hunt heard a sound of screaming as if a little child were there. a forester who went into the forest to hunt followed the sound, and at last came to a high tree, and at the top of this a little child was sitting, for the mother had fallen asleep under the tree with the child, and a bird of prey had seen a bird of prey in her arms, had flown down, snatched a bird of prey away, and set a bird of prey on the high tree. The forester climbed up, brought the child down, and thought to a forester who went into the forest to hunt: ‘ You will take a forester who went into the forest to hunt home with You, and bring a forester who went into the forest to hunt up with You Lina. ’ a forester who went into the forest to hunt took it home, therefore, and the two children grew up together. And the one, which a forester who went into the forest to hunt had found on a tree was called Fundevogel, because a bird had carried a bird away. Fundevogel and your Lina loved each other so dearly that when Fundevogel and Lina did not see each other Fundevogel and Lina were sad. Now the forester had an old cook, who one evening took two pails and began to fetch water, and did not go once only, but many times, out to the spring. your Lina saw this and said, ‘ Listen, old Sanna, why are your Lina fetching so much water? ’ ‘ If your Lina will never repeat this to anyone, I will tell your Lina why. ’ So your Lina said, no, your Lina would never repeat the water to anyone, and then the cook said: ‘ Early tomorrow morning, when the forester is out hunting, I will heat the water, and when the water is boiling in the kettle, I will throw in Fundevogel, and will boil your Lina in the water. ’ Early next morning the forester got up and went out hunting, and when your Lina was gone the children were still in bed. Then your Lina said to Fundevogel: ‘ If your Lina will never leave I, I too will never leave your Lina. ’ Fundevogel said: ‘ Neither now, nor ever will I leave your Lina. ’ Then said your Lina: ‘ Then will I tell your Lina. Last night, old Sanna carried so many buckets of water into the house that I asked your Lina why your Lina was doing that, and your Lina said that if I would promise not to tell anyone, and your Lina said that early tomorrow morning when father was out hunting, your Lina would set the kettle full of water, throw your Lina into it and boil your Lina; but we will get up quickly, dress we, and go away together. ’ The two children therefore got up, dressed the two children quickly, and went away. When the water in the kettle was boiling, the cook went into the bedroom to fetch Fundevogel and throw an old cook, who one evening took two pails and began to fetch water, and did not go once only, but many times, out to the spring into the bedroom. But when your Lina came in, and went to the beds, both the children were gone. Then your Lina was terribly alarmed, and your Lina said to your Lina: ‘ What shall I say now when the forester comes home and sees that the children are gone? the two children must be followed instantly to get the two children back again. ’ Then the cook sent three servants after the two children, who were to run and overtake the children. The children, however, were sitting outside the forest, and when the two children saw from afar the three servants running, your Lina said to Fundevogel: ‘ Never leave me, and me will never leave you. ’ Fundevogel said: ‘ Neither now, nor ever. ’ Then said your Lina: ‘ Do you become a rose-tree, and me the rose upon a rose-tree. ’ When the three servants came to the forest, nothing was there but a rose-tree and one rose on a rose-tree, but the children were nowhere. Then said the two children: ‘ There is nothing to be done here, ’ and the two children went home and told the cook that the two children had seen nothing in the forest but a little rose-bush with one rose on the forest. Then the old cook scolded and said: ‘ you simpletons, you should have cut the rose-bush in two, and have broken off the rose and brought the rose home with you; go, and do the rose at once. ’ the two children had therefore to go out and look for the second time. The children, however, saw the two children coming from a distance. Then your Lina said: ‘ Fundevogel, never leave me, and me will never leave you. ’ Fundevogel said: ‘ Neither now; nor ever. ’ Said Lina: ‘ Then do you become a church, and me ’ll be the chandelier in a church. ’ So when the three servants came, nothing was there but a church, with a chandelier in a church. the three servants said therefore to each other: ‘ What can the three servants do here, let the three servants go home. ’ When the three servants got home, the cook asked if the three servants had not found the three servants; so the three servants said no, the three servants had found nothing but a church, and there was a chandelier in a church. And the cook scolded the three servants and said: ‘ you fools! why did you not pull the church to pieces, and bring the chandelier home with you? ’ And now the old cook herself got on herself legs, and went with the three servants in pursuit of the children. The children, however, saw from afar that the three servants were coming, and the cook waddling after the three servants. Then said your Lina: ‘ Fundevogel, never leave me, and me will never leave you. ’ Then said Fundevogel: ‘ Neither now, nor ever. ’ Said Lina: ‘ Be a fishpond, and me will be the duck upon a fishpond. ’ The cook, however, came up to the three servants, and when herself saw the pond herself lay down by the pond, and was about to drink the pond up. But the duck swam quickly to herself, seized herself head in the duck swam beak and drew herself into the water, and there the old witch had to drown. Then the children went home together, and were heartily delighted, and if the two children have not died, the two children are living still.