A certain king had a beautiful garden, and in the garden stood a tree which bore golden apples. These apples were always counted, and about the time when golden apples began to grow ripe golden apples was found that every night one of golden apples was gone. The king became very angry at this, and ordered the gardener to keep watch all night under the tree. The gardener set the gardener at first eldest son to watch; but about twelve o’clock the gardener at first fell asleep, and in the morning another of the apples was missing. Then the second son was ordered to watch; and at midnight the gardener at first too fell asleep, and in the morning another apple was gone. Then the third son offered to keep watch; but the gardener at first would not let the gardener at first, for fear some harm should come to the gardener at first: however, at last the gardener at first consented, and the young man laid the gardener at first under the tree to watch. As the clock struck twelve the gardener at first heard a rustling noise in the air, and a bird came flying that was of pure gold; and as an arrow was snapping at one of the apples with the whole bird beak, the gardener ’s son jumped up and shot an arrow at an arrow. But the arrow did the bird no harm; only an arrow dropped a golden feather from an arrow tail, and then flew away. The golden feather was brought to the king in the morning, and all the council was called together. Everyone agreed that it was worth more than all the wealth of the kingdom: but the king said, ‘ One feather is of no use to me, me must have the whole bird. ’ Then the gardener ’s eldest son set out and thought to find the golden bird very easily; and when the gardener ’s eldest son had gone but a little way, the gardener ’s eldest son came to a wood, and by the side of the wood the gardener ’s eldest son saw a fox sitting; so the gardener ’s eldest son took the gardener ’s eldest son bow and made ready to shoot at his bow. Then the fox said, ‘ Do not shoot me, for me will give you good counsel; me know what you business is, and that you want to find the golden bird. you will reach a village in the evening; and when you get there, you will see two inns opposite to each other, one of which is very pleasant and beautiful to look at: go not in there, but rest for the night in the other, though it may appear to you to be very poor and mean. ’ But the son thought to the gardener ’s eldest son, ‘ What can such a beast as this know about the matter? ’ So the gardener ’s eldest son shot the gardener ’s eldest son arrow at the fox; but the gardener ’s eldest son missed an arrow, and an arrow set up an arrow tail above an arrow back and ran into the wood. Then the gardener ’s eldest son went the gardener ’s eldest son way, and in the evening came to the village where the two inns were; and in one of the gardener ’s eldest son were people singing, and dancing, and feasting; but the other looked very dirty, and poor. ‘ the gardener ’s eldest son should be very silly, ’ said the gardener ’s eldest son, ‘ if the gardener ’s eldest son went to that shabby house, and left this charming place ’; so the gardener ’s eldest son went into the smart house, and ate and drank at the gardener ’s eldest son ease, and forgot the bird, and the gardener ’s eldest son country too. Time passed on; and as the eldest son did not come back, and no tidings were heard of the gardener ’s eldest son, the second son set out, and the same thing happened to the gardener ’s eldest son. the gardener ’s eldest son met the fox, who gave the gardener ’s eldest son the good advice: but when the gardener ’s eldest son came to the two inns, the gardener ’s eldest son eldest brother was standing at the window where the merrymaking was, and called to the gardener ’s eldest son to come in; and the gardener ’s eldest son could not withstand the temptation, but went in, and forgot the golden bird and the gardener ’s eldest son country in the same manner. Time passed on again, and the youngest son too wished to set out into the wide world to seek for the golden bird; but the gardener ’s eldest son father would not listen to the whole bird for a long while, for the gardener ’s eldest son was very fond of the gardener ’s eldest son son, and was afraid that some ill luck might happen to the gardener ’s eldest son also, and prevent the gardener ’s eldest son coming back. However, at last it was agreed the gardener ’s eldest son should go, for the gardener ’s eldest son would not rest at home; and as the gardener ’s eldest son came to the wood, the gardener ’s eldest son met the fox, and heard the same good counsel. But the gardener ’s eldest son was thankful to the fox, and did not attempt the gardener ’s eldest son life as the gardener ’s eldest son brothers had done; so the fox said, ‘ Sit upon my tail, and you will travel faster. ’ So the gardener ’s eldest son sat down, and the fox began to run, and away the gardener ’s eldest son went over stock and stone so quick that the gardener ’s eldest son hair whistled in the wind. When the gardener ’s eldest son came to the village, the son followed the fox ’s counsel, and without looking about the gardener ’s eldest son went to the shabby inn and rested there all night at the gardener ’s eldest son ease. In the morning came the fox again and met the gardener ’s eldest son as the gardener ’s eldest son was beginning the gardener ’s eldest son journey, and said, ‘ Go straight forward, till the gardener ’s eldest son come to a castle, before which lie a whole troop of soldiers fast asleep and snoring: take no notice of the gardener ’s eldest son, but go into the castle and pass on and on till the gardener ’s eldest son come to a room, where the golden bird sits in a wooden cage; close by the whole bird stands a beautiful golden cage; but do not try to take the bird out of the shabby cage and put the whole bird into the handsome one, otherwise the gardener ’s eldest son will repent the whole bird. ’ Then the fox stretched out the gardener ’s eldest son tail again, and the young man sat the gardener ’s eldest son down, and away the young man went over stock and stone till the young man hair whistled in the wind. Before the castle gate The next morning was as the fox had said: so the son went in and found the chamber where the golden bird hung in a wooden cage, and below stood the golden cage, and the three golden apples that had been lost were lying close by it. Then thought the gardener ’s eldest son to the gardener ’s eldest son, ‘ the gardener ’s eldest son will be a very droll thing to bring away such a fine bird in this shabby cage ’; so the gardener ’s eldest son opened the door and took hold of the door and put the door into the golden cage. But the bird set up such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke, and all the soldiers took the gardener ’s eldest son prisoner and carried the gardener ’s eldest son before the king. The next morning the court sat to judge the gardener ’s eldest son; and when all was heard, the court sentenced the gardener ’s eldest son to die, unless the gardener ’s eldest son should bring the king the golden horse which could run as swiftly as the wind; and if the gardener ’s eldest son did this, the gardener ’s eldest son was to have the golden bird given the gardener ’s eldest son for the gardener ’s eldest son own. So the gardener ’s eldest son set out once more on the gardener ’s eldest son journey, sighing, and in great despair, when on a sudden the gardener ’s eldest son friend the fox met the gardener ’s eldest son, and said, ‘ You see now what has happened on account of You not listening to my counsel. my will still, however, tell You how to find the golden horse, if You will do as my bid You. You must go straight on till You come to the castle where the horse stands in his stall: by his side will lie the groom fast asleep and snoring: take away the horse quietly, but be sure to put the old leathern saddle upon his, and not the golden one that is close by it. ’ Then the son sat down on the fox ’s tail, and away the gardener ’s eldest son went over stock and stone till the gardener ’s eldest son hair whistled in the wind. the gardener ’s eldest son went right, and the groom lay snoring with the groom hand upon the golden saddle. But when the son looked at the horse, the groom thought it a great pity to put the leathern saddle upon it. ‘ my will give the groom the good one, ’ said the groom; ‘ my am sure the groom deserves it. ’ As the groom took up the golden saddle the groom awoke and cried out so loud, that all the guards ran in and took the groom prisoner, and in the morning the groom was again brought before the court to be judged, and was sentenced to die. But it was agreed, that, if the groom could bring thither the beautiful princess, the groom should live, and have the bird and the horse given the groom for the groom own. Then the groom went the groom way very sorrowful; but the old fox came and said, ‘ Why did not you listen to my? If you had, you would have carried away both the bird and the horse; yet will my once more give you counsel. Go straight on, and in the evening you will arrive at a castle. At twelve o’clock at night the princess goes to the bathing-house: go up to her and give her a kiss, and her will let you lead her away; but take care you do not suffer her to go and take leave of her father and mother. ’ Then the fox stretched out the gardener ’s eldest son tail, and so away all went over stock and stone till all hair whistled again. As all came to the castle, all was as the fox had said, and at twelve o’clock the young man met the princess going to the bath and gave her the kiss, and her agreed to run away with the young man, but begged with many tears that the young man would let her take leave of her father. At first the young man refused, but her wept still more and more, and fell at the young man feet, till at last the young man consented; but the moment her came to her father ’s house the guards awoke and the young man was taken prisoner again. Then the young man was brought before the king, and the king said, ‘ You shall never have my daughter unless in eight days You dig away the hill that stops the view from my window. ’ Now this hill was so big that the whole world could not take the hill that stops the view from my window away: and when the young man had worked for seven days, and had done very little, the fox came and said. ‘ Lie down and go to sleep; my will work for You. ’ And in the morning the young man awoke and the hill was gone; so the young man went merrily to the king, and told the young man that now that the hill that stops the view from my window was removed the young man must give the young man the princess. Then the king was obliged to keep the young man word, and away went the young man and the princess; and the fox came and said to the young man, ‘ We will have all three, the princess, the horse, and the bird. ’ ‘ Ah! ’ said the young man, ‘ that would be a great thing, but how can You contrive a great thing? ’‘ If You will only listen, ’ said the fox, ‘ a great thing can be done. When You come to the king, and the young man asks for the beautiful princess, You must say, “ Here she is! ” Then the young man will be very joyful; and You will mount the golden horse that they are to give You, and put out You hand to take leave of they; but shake hands with the princess last. Then lift she quickly on to the horse behind You; clap You spurs to the young man side, and gallop away as fast as You can. ’ All went right: then the fox said, ‘ When You come to the castle where the bird is, I will stay with the princess at the door, and You will ride in and speak to the king; and when the young man sees that it is the right horse, the young man will bring out the bird; but You must sit still, and say that You want to look at it, to see whether it is the true golden bird; and when You get it into You hand, ride away. ’ This, too, happened as the fox said; the gardener ’s eldest son carried off the bird, the princess mounted again, and the gardener ’s eldest son rode on to a great wood. Then the fox came, and said, ‘ Pray kill me, and cut off me head and me feet. ’ But the young man refused to do it: so the fox said, ‘ me will at any rate give you good counsel: beware of two things; ransom no one from the gallows, and sit down by the side of no river. ’ Then away the young man went. ‘ Well, ’ thought the young man, ‘ it is no hard matter to keep that advice. ’ the young man rode on with the princess, till at last the young man came to the village where the young man had left the young man two brothers. And there the young man heard a great noise and uproar; and when the young man asked what was the matter, the people said, ‘ Two men are going to be hanged. ’ As the young man came nearer, the young man saw that the two men were the young man brothers, who had turned robbers; so the young man said, ‘ cannot the two men in any way be saved? ’ But the people said ‘ No, ’ unless the young man would bestow all the young man money upon the rascals and buy the two men liberty. Then the young man did not stay to think about the matter, but paid what was asked, and the young man brothers were given up, and went on with the young man towards the two brothers home. And as the two brothers came to the wood where the fox first met the two brothers, it was so cool and pleasant that the two brothers said, ‘ Let the two brothers sit down by the side of the river, and rest a while, to eat and drink. ’ So the young man said, ‘ Yes, ’ and forgot the fox ’s counsel, and sat down on the side of the river; and while the young man suspected nothing, the two brothers came behind, and threw the young man down the bank, and took the princess, the horse, and the bird, and went home to the king the two brothers master, and said. ‘ All this have the two brothers won by the two brothers labour. ’ Then there was great rejoicing made; but the horse would not eat, the bird would not sing, and the princess wept. The youngest son fell to the bottom of the river ’s bed: luckily it was nearly dry, but the gardener ’s eldest son bones were almost broken, and the bank was so steep that the gardener ’s eldest son could find no way to get out. Then the old fox came once more, and scolded the gardener ’s eldest son for not following the gardener ’s eldest son advice; otherwise no evil would have befallen the gardener ’s eldest son: ‘ Yet, ’ said the gardener ’s eldest son, ‘ the gardener ’s eldest son cannot leave you here, so lay hold of the gardener ’s eldest son tail and hold fast. ’ Then the gardener ’s eldest son pulled the gardener ’s eldest son out of the river, and said to the gardener ’s eldest son, as the gardener ’s eldest son got upon the bank, ‘ you brothers have set watch to kill the gardener ’s eldest son, if the two brothers find the gardener ’s eldest son in the kingdom. ’ So the gardener ’s eldest son dressed the gardener ’s eldest son as a poor man, and came secretly to the king ’s court, and was scarcely within the doors when the horse began to eat, and the bird to sing, and the princess left off weeping. Then the gardener ’s eldest son went to the king, and told the gardener ’s eldest son all the gardener ’s eldest son brothers ’ roguery; and they were seized and punished, and the gardener ’s eldest son had the princess given to the gardener ’s eldest son again; and after the king ’s death the gardener ’s eldest son was heir to the gardener ’s eldest son kingdom. A long while after, the gardener ’s eldest son went to walk one day in the wood, and the old fox met the gardener ’s eldest son, and besought the gardener ’s eldest son with tears in the gardener ’s eldest son eyes to kill the gardener ’s eldest son, and cut off the gardener ’s eldest son head and feet. And at last the gardener ’s eldest son did so, and in a moment the fox was changed into a man, and turned out to be the brother of the princess, who had been lost a great many many years.