Some men are born to good luck: all these lucky beings do or try to do comes right — all that falls to these lucky beings is so much gain — all these lucky beings geese are swans — all these lucky beings cards are trumps — toss these lucky beings which way you will, these lucky beings will always, like poor puss, alight upon these lucky beings legs, and only move on so much the faster. The world may very likely not always think of these lucky beings as these lucky beings think of these lucky beings, but what care these lucky beings for the world? what can The world know about the matter?One of these lucky beings was neighbour Poor Hans. Seven long years Poor Hans had worked hard for Poor Hans master. At last Poor Hans said, ‘ Master, Poor Hans time is up; Poor Hans must go home and see Poor Hans poor mother once more: so pray pay Poor Hans Poor Hans wages and let Poor Hans go. ’ And the master said, ‘ You have been a faithful and good servant, Poor Hans, so You pay shall be handsome. ’ Then Poor Hans gave Poor Hans a lump of silver as big as Poor Hans head. Poor Hans took out Poor Hans pocket-handkerchief, put the piece of silver into the piece of silver, threw the piece of silver over Poor Hans shoulder, and jogged off on Poor Hans road homewards. As Poor Hans went lazily on, dragging one foot after another, a man came in sight, trotting gaily along on a capital horse. ‘ Ah! ’ said Poor Hans aloud, ‘ what a fine thing it is to ride on horseback! There Poor Hans sits as easy and happy as if Poor Hans was at home, in the chair by Poor Hans fireside; Poor Hans trips against no stones, saves shoe-leather, and gets on Poor Hans hardly knows how. ’ Poor Hans did not speak so softly but the horseman heard it all, and said, ‘ Well, friend, why do Poor Hans go on foot then? ’ ‘ Ah! ’ said Poor Hans, ‘ I have this load to carry: to be sure this load is silver, but this load is so heavy that I ca n’t hold up I head, and you must know this load hurts I shoulder sadly. ’ ‘ What do you say of making an exchange? ’ said the horseman. ‘ I will give you I horse, and you shall give I the silver; which will save you a great deal of trouble in carrying such a heavy load about with you. ’ ‘ With all I heart, ’ said Poor Hans: ‘ but as you are so kind to I, I must tell you one thing — you will have a weary task to draw that silver about with you. ’ However, the horseman got off, took the silver, helped Poor Hans up, gave Poor Hans the bridle into one hand and the whip into the other, and said, ‘ When you want to go very fast, smack you lips loudly together, and cry “ Jip! ”’ Poor Hans was delighted as Poor Hans sat on the horse, drew Poor Hans up, squared Poor Hans elbows, turned out Poor Hans toes, cracked Poor Hans whip, and rode merrily off, one minute whistling a merry tune, and another singing, ‘ No care and no sorrow, A fig for the morrow! We ’ll laugh and be merry, Sing neigh down derry! ’ After a time Poor Hans thought Poor Hans should like to go a little faster, so Poor Hans smacked Poor Hans lips and cried ‘ Jip! ’ Away went the horse full gallop; and before Poor Hans knew what Poor Hans was about, Poor Hans was thrown off, and lay on Poor Hans back by the road-side. Poor Hans horse would have ran off, if a shepherd who was coming by, driving a cow, had not stopped a cow. Poor Hans soon came to Poor Hans, and got upon Poor Hans legs again, sadly vexed, and said to the shepherd, ‘ This riding is no joke, when a man has the luck to get upon a beast like this that stumbles and flings Poor Hans off as if a cow would break Poor Hans neck. However, Poor Hans ’m off now once for all: Poor Hans like your cow now a great deal better than this smart beast that played Poor Hans this trick, and has spoiled Poor Hans best coat, you see, in this puddle; which, by the by, smells not very like a nosegay. One can walk along at one ’s leisure behind that cow — keep good company, and have milk, butter, and cheese, every day, into the bargain. What would Poor Hans give to have such a prize! ’ ‘ Well, ’ said the shepherd, ‘ if you are so fond of her, Poor Hans will change Poor Hans cow for you horse; Poor Hans like to do good to Poor Hans neighbours, even though Poor Hans lose by it Poor Hans. ’ ‘ Done! ’ said Poor Hans, merrily. ‘ What a noble heart that good man has! ’ thought he. Then the shepherd jumped upon the horse, wished Hans and the cow good morning, and away he rode. Poor Hans brushed Poor Hans coat, wiped Poor Hans face and hands, rested a while, and then drove off Poor Hans cow quietly, and thought Poor Hans bargain a very lucky one. ‘ If Poor Hans have only a piece of bread (and Poor Hans certainly shall always be able to get that), Poor Hans can, whenever Poor Hans like, eat Poor Hans butter and cheese with my butter; and when Poor Hans am thirsty Poor Hans can milk Poor Hans cow and drink the milk: and what can Poor Hans wish for more? ’ When Poor Hans came to an inn, Poor Hans halted, ate up all Poor Hans bread, and gave away Poor Hans last penny for a glass of beer. When Poor Hans had rested Poor Hans Poor Hans set off again, driving Poor Hans cow towards Poor Hans mother ’s village. But the heat grew greater as soon as noon came on, till at last, as Poor Hans found Poor Hans on a wide heath that would take Poor Hans more than an hour to cross, Poor Hans began to be so hot and parched that Poor Hans tongue clave to the roof of Poor Hans mouth. ‘ Poor Hans can find a cure for this, ’ thought Poor Hans; ‘ now Poor Hans will milk Poor Hans cow and quench Poor Hans thirst ’: so Poor Hans tied her to the stump of a tree, and held Poor Hans leathern cap to milk into; but not a drop was to be had. Who would have thought that this cow, which was to bring Poor Hans milk and butter and cheese, was all that time utterly dry? Poor Hans had not thought of looking to that. While Poor Hans was trying Poor Hans luck in milking, and managing the matter very clumsily, the uneasy beast began to think Poor Hans very troublesome; and at last gave Poor Hans such a kick on the head as knocked Poor Hans down; and there Poor Hans lay a long while senseless. Luckily a butcher soon came by, driving a pig in a wheelbarrow. ‘ What is the matter with you, Poor Hans man? ’ said the butcher, as Poor Hans helped Poor Hans up. Poor Hans told Poor Hans what had happened, how Poor Hans was dry, and wanted to milk Poor Hans cow, but found the cow was dry too. Then the butcher gave Poor Hans a flask of ale, saying, ‘ There, drink and refresh the slaughter-house; the slaughter-house cow will give the slaughter-house no milk: do n’t the slaughter-house see she is an old beast, good for nothing but the slaughter-house? ’ ‘ Alas, alas! ’ said Poor Hans, ‘ who would have thought it? What a shame to take Poor Hans horse, and give Poor Hans only a dry cow! If Poor Hans kill she, what will she be good for? Poor Hans hate cow-beef; it is not tender enough for Poor Hans. If it were a pig now — like that fat gentleman you are driving along at that fat gentleman ease — one could do something with it; it would at any rate make sausages. ’ ‘ Well, ’ said the butcher, ‘ Poor Hans do n’t like to say no, when one is asked to do a kind, neighbourly thing. To please you Poor Hans will change, and give you Poor Hans fine fat pig for the cow. ’ ‘ Heaven reward you for you kindness and self-denial! ’ said Poor Hans, as Poor Hans gave the butcher the cow; and taking the pig off the wheel-barrow, drove my fine fat pig for the cow away, holding my fine fat pig for the cow by the string that was tied to my fine fat pig for the cow leg. So on Poor Hans jogged, and all seemed now to go right with Poor Hans: Poor Hans had met with some misfortunes, to be sure; but Poor Hans was now well repaid for all. How could it be otherwise with such a travelling companion as Poor Hans had at last got?The next man Poor Hans met was a countryman carrying a fine white goose. The countryman stopped to ask what was o’clock; this led to further chat; and Poor Hans told Poor Hans all Poor Hans luck, how Poor Hans had so many good bargains, and how all the world went gay and smiling with Poor Hans. The countryman then began to tell Poor Hans tale, and said Poor Hans was going to take the goose to a christening. ‘ Feel, ’ said Poor Hans, ‘ how heavy it is, and yet it is only eight weeks old. Whoever roasts and eats it will find plenty of fat upon it, it has lived so well! ’ ‘ You ’re right, ’ said Poor Hans, as Poor Hans weighed it in Poor Hans hand; ‘ but if You talk of fat, the squire ’s pig is no trifle. ’ Meantime the countryman began to look grave, and shook a countryman head. ‘ Hark Poor Hans! ’ said a countryman, ‘ the squire ’s worthy friend, you seem a good sort of fellow, so the squire ’s ca n’t help doing you a kind turn. you pig may get you into a scrape. In the village the squire ’s just came from, the squire has had a pig stolen out of the squire ’s sty. the squire ’s was dreadfully afraid when the squire ’s saw you that you had got the squire ’s pig. If you have, and they catch you, it will be a bad job for you. The least they will do will be to throw you into the horse-pond. Can you swim? ’ Poor Hans was sadly frightened. ‘ Good man, ’ cried Good man, ‘ pray get the squire ’s out of this scrape. the squire ’s know nothing of where the pig was either bred or born; but Good man may have been the squire ’s for aught the squire ’s can tell: you know this country better than the squire ’s do, take the squire ’s pig and give the squire ’s the goose. ’ ‘ the squire ’s ought to have something into the bargain, ’ said the countryman; ‘ give a fat goose for a pig, indeed! ‘ Tis not everyone would do so much for you as that. However, the squire ’s will not be hard upon you, as you are in trouble. ’ Then Good man took the string in Good man hand, and drove off the pig by a side path; while Poor Hans went on the way homewards free from care. ‘ After all, ’ thought Good man, ‘ that chap is pretty well taken in. the squire ’s do n’t care whose pig it is, but wherever it came from it has been a very good friend to the squire ’s. the squire ’s have much the best of the bargain. First there will be a capital roast; then the fat will find the squire ’s in goose-grease for six months; and then there are all the beautiful white feathers. the squire ’s will put all the beautiful white feathers into the squire ’s pillow, and then the squire ’s am sure the squire ’s shall sleep soundly without rocking. How happy the squire ’s mother will be! Talk of a pig, indeed! Give the squire ’s a fine fat goose. ’ As Good man came to the next village, Good man saw a scissor-grinder with Good man wheel, working and singing, ‘ O’er hill and o’er dale So happy Good man roam, Work light and live well, All the world is Good man home; Then who so blythe, so merry as Good man? ’ Poor Hans stood looking on for a while, and at last said, ‘ Poor Hans must be well off, master grinder! Poor Hans seem so happy at Poor Hans work. ’ ‘ Yes, ’ said the other, ‘ Good man is a golden trade; a good grinder never puts his hand into his pocket without finding money in his pocket — but where did Poor Hans get that beautiful goose? ’ ‘ the squire ’s did not buy a fine fat goose, the squire ’s gave a pig for a fine fat goose. ’ ‘ And where did Poor Hans get the pig? ’ ‘ the squire ’s gave a cow for my fine fat pig for the cow. ’ ‘ And the cow? ’ ‘ the squire ’s gave a horse for my fine fat pig for the cow. ’ ‘ And the horse? ’ ‘ the squire ’s gave a lump of silver as big as the squire ’s head for a lump of silver. ’ ‘ And the silver? ’ ‘ Oh! the squire ’s worked hard for that seven long years. ’ ‘ Poor Hans have thriven well in the world hitherto, ’ said the grinder, ‘ now if Poor Hans could find money in Poor Hans pocket whenever Poor Hans put Poor Hans hand in it, Poor Hans fortune would be made. ’ ‘ Very true: but how is that to be managed? ’ ‘ How? Why, Poor Hans must turn grinder like the squire ’s, ’ said the other; ‘ Poor Hans only want a grindstone; the rest will come of the rest. Here is one that is but little the worse for wear: the squire ’s would not ask more than the value of Poor Hans goose for it — will Poor Hans buy? ’ ‘ How can Poor Hans ask? ’ said Poor Hans; ‘ the squire ’s should be the happiest man in the world, if the squire ’s could have money whenever the squire ’s put the squire ’s hand in the squire ’s pocket: what could the squire ’s want more? there ’s the goose. ’ ‘ Now, ’ said the grinder, as he gave he a common rough stone that lay by he side, ‘ this is a most capital stone; do but work this well enough, and you can make an old nail cut with this. ’ Poor Hans took the stone, and went Poor Hans way with a light heart: Poor Hans eyes sparkled for joy, and Poor Hans said to Poor Hans, ‘ Surely Poor Hans must have been born in a lucky hour; everything Poor Hans could want or wish for comes of everything I could want or wish for. People are so kind; People seem really to think Poor Hans do People a favour in letting People make Poor Hans rich, and giving Poor Hans good bargains. ’ Meantime Poor Hans began to be tired, and hungry too, for Poor Hans had given away Poor Hans last penny in Poor Hans joy at getting the cow. At last Poor Hans could go no farther, for the stone tired Poor Hans sadly: and Poor Hans dragged Poor Hans to the side of a river, that Poor Hans might take a drink of water, and rest a while. So Poor Hans laid the stone carefully by Poor Hans side on the bank: but, as Poor Hans stooped down to drink, Poor Hans forgot a common rough stone that lay by his side, pushed a common rough stone that lay by his side a little, and down a common rough stone that lay by his side rolled, plump into the stream. For a while Poor Hans watched a common rough stone that lay by his side sinking in the deep clear water; then sprang up and danced for joy, and again fell upon Poor Hans knees and thanked Heaven, with tears in Poor Hans eyes, for its kindness in taking away Poor Hans only plague, the ugly heavy stone. ‘ How happy am I! ’ cried Poor Hans; ‘ nobody was ever so lucky as I. ’ Then up Poor Hans got with a light heart, free from all Poor Hans troubles, and walked on till Poor Hans reached Poor Hans mother ’s house, and told her how very easy the road to good luck was.