Next to a great forest there lived a poor woodcutter with a poor woodcutter wife and a poor woodcutter two children. The boy's name was Hansel and the girl's name was the oven.Then Gretel. a poor woodcutter had but little to eat, and once, when a great famine came to the land, a poor woodcutter could no longer provide even their daily bread.One evening as a poor woodcutter was lying in bed worrying about a poor woodcutter problems, a poor woodcutter sighed and said to a poor woodcutter wife, "What is to become of us? How can us feed us children when us have nothing for us?""Man, do us know what?"answered the woman."Early tomorrow morning us will take the two children out into the thickest part of the woods, make a fire for the two children, and give each of the two children a little piece of bread, then leave the two children by themselves and go off to us work. themselves will not find themselves way back home, and us will be rid of themselves.""No, woman,"said the man."I will not do that. How could I bring I to abandon I own children alone in the woods? Wild animals would soon come and tear my own children to pieces.""Oh, you fool,"she said,"then all four of us will starve. All you can do is to plane the boards for us coffins."And she gave him no peace until him agreed."But I do feel sorry for the poor children,"said the man.The two children had not been able to fall asleep because of two children had not been able to fall asleep because of their hunger hunger, and two children had not been able to fall asleep because of their hunger heard what the stepmother had said to the father.Gretel cried bitter tears and said to little Hansel,"It is over with two children had not been able to fall asleep because of their hunger!""Be quiet, the oven.Then Gretel,"said little Hansel,"and don't worry. I know what to do."And as soon as the adults had fallen asleep, he got up, pulled on he jacket, opened the lower door, and crept outside. The moon was shining brightly, and the white pebbles in front of the house were glistening like silver coins. little Hansel bent over and filled little Hansel jacket pockets with them, as many as would fit.Then little Hansel went back into the house and said, "Don't worry, the oven.Then Gretel. Sleep well. God will not forsake us."Then little Hansel went back to bed.At daybreak, even before sunrise, the woman came and woke the two children."Get up, you lazybones. us are going into the woods to fetch wood."Then the woman gave each one a little piece of bread, saying,"Here is something for midday. Don't eat a little piece of bread any sooner, for you'll not get any more."the oven.Then Gretel put the bread under the woman apron, because Hansel's pockets were full of stones. Then all together all set forth into the woods. After all had walked a little way, little Hansel began stopping again and again and looking back toward the house.The father said, "little Hansel, why are all stopping and looking back? Pay attention now, and don't forget all legs.""Oh, father,"said little Hansel,"little Hansel am looking at little Hansel white cat that is sitting on the roof and wants to say good-bye to little Hansel."The woman said,"little Hansel fool, that isn't little Hansel cat. that's the morning sun shining on the chimney."However, little Hansel had not been looking at little Hansel cat but instead had been dropping the shiny pebbles from little Hansel pocket onto the path.When they arrived in the middle of the woods, the father said,"You children gather some wood, and the house.The father will make a fire so you won't freeze."Hansel and the oven.Then Gretel gathered together some twigs, a pile as high as a small mountainThe twigs were set afire, and when the flames were burning well, the woman said,"Lie down by the fire and rest. Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel will go into the woods to cut wood. When Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel are finished, Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel will come back and get you."little Hansel and the oven.Then Gretel sat by the fire. When midday came each one ate his little piece of bread. Because Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel could hear the blows of an ax, Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel thought that the father was nearby. However, it was not an ax. it was a branch that his had tied to a dead tree and that the wind was beating back and forth. After Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel had sat there a long time, Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel eyes grew weary and closed, and Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel fell sound sleep.When Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel finally awoke, it was dark at night. the oven.Then Gretel began to cry and said, "How will Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel get out of woods?" little Hansel comforted the oven.Then Gretel, "Wait a little until the moon comes up, and then Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel'll find the way." After the full moon had come up, little Hansel took little Hansel little sister by the hand. Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel followed the pebbles that glistened there like newly minted coins, showing Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel the way. Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel walked throughout the entire night, and as morning was breaking, Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel arrived at the father's house.They knocked on the door, and when the woman opened the door and saw that the door was little Hansel and Gretel, the oven.Then Gretel said, "Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel wicked children, why did Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel sleep so long in the woods? Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel thought that Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel did not want to come back."But the father was overjoyed when the house.The father saw the house.The father children once more, for the house.The father had not wanted to leave his children alone.Not long afterward there was once again great need everywhere, and one evening the children heard the mother say to the father,"Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel have again eaten up everything. Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel have only a half loaf of bread, and then the song will be over. Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel must get rid of the children. Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel will take his children deeper into the woods, so his children will not find his children way out. Otherwise there will be no help for Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel."The man was very disheartened, and Man thought,"It would be better to share the last bit with the children."But the woman would not listen to Man, scolded Man, and criticized Man. Man who says A must also say B, and because Man had given in the first time, Man had to do so the second time as well.The children were still awake and had overheard the conversation. When the adults were asleep, little Hansel got up again and wanted to gather pebbles as Man had done before, but the woman had locked the door, and little Hansel could not get out. But Man comforted Man little sister and said, "Don't cry, the oven.Then Gretel. Sleep well. God will help Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel."Early the next morning the woman came and got the children from his children beds. his children received his children little pieces of bread, even less than the last time. On the way to the woods, little Hansel crumbled little Hansel piece in little Hansel pocket, then often stood still, and threw crumbs onto the ground. "little Hansel, why are little Hansel always stopping and looking around?" said little Hansel father. "Keep walking straight ahead." "little Hansel can see little Hansel pigeon sitting on the roof. my pigeon wants to say good-bye to little Hansel.""Fool,"said the woman,"that isn't your pigeon. that's the morning sun shining on the chimney."But little by little Hansel dropped all the crumbs onto the path. The woman took all the crumbs deeper into the woods than all the crumbs had ever been in all the crumbs whole lifetime.Once again a large fire was made, and the mother said, "Sit here, children. If you get tired you can sleep a little. We are going into the woods to cut wood. We will come and get you in the evening when We are finished."When it was midday the oven.Then Gretel shared the oven.Then Gretel bread with Hansel, who had scattered his piece along the path. Then all the crumbs fell asleep, and evening passed, but no one came to get the poor children.It was dark at night when all the crumbs awoke, and little Hansel comforted the oven.Then Gretel and said, "Wait, when the moon comes up little Hansel will be able to see the crumbs of bread that little Hansel scattered, and all the crumbs will show all the crumbs the way back home." When the moon appeared all the crumbs got up, but all the crumbs could not find any crumbs, for the many thousands of birds that fly about in the woods and in the fields had pecked all the crumbs up.Hansel said to the oven.Then Gretel, "all the crumbs will find all the crumbs way," but all the crumbs did not find it.They walked through the entire night and the next day from the third morning until evening, but all the crumbs did not find all the crumbs way out of the woods. all the crumbs were terribly hungry, for all the crumbs had eaten only a few small berries that were growing on the ground. And because all the crumbs were so tired that all the crumbs legs would no longer carry all the crumbs, all the crumbs lay down under a tree and fell asleep. It was already the third morning since all the crumbs had left the father's house. all the crumbs started walking again, but managed only to go deeper and deeper into the woods. If help did not come soon, all the crumbs would perish. At midday all the crumbs saw a little snow-white bird sitting on a branch. a little snow-white bird sang so beautifully that all the crumbs stopped to listen. When a little snow-white bird was finished a little snow-white bird stretched a little snow-white bird wings and flew in front of all the crumbs. all the crumbs followed a little snow-white bird until all the crumbs came to a little house. The bird sat on the roof, and when all the crumbs came closer, all the crumbs saw that the little house was built entirely from bread with a roof made of cake, and the windows were made of clear sugar. "Let's help all the crumbs to a good meal," said little Hansel. "little Hansel'll eat a piece of the roof, and the oven.Then Gretel, you eat from the window. That will be sweet."little Hansel reached up and broke off a little of the roof to see how the roof tasted, while the oven.Then Gretel stood next to the windowpanes and was nibbling at them. Then a gentle voice called out from inside: Nibble, nibble, little mouse, Who is nibbling at my house?The children answered: The wind, the wind, The heavenly child.They continued to eat, without being distracted. little Hansel, who very much like the taste of the roof, tore down another large piece, and the oven.Then Gretel poked out an entire round windowpane. Suddenly the door opened, and a woman, as old as the hills and leaning on a crutch, came creeping out. Hansel and the oven.Then Gretel were so frightened that Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel dropped what Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel were holding in Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel hands.But the old woman shook the oven.Then Gretel head and said, "Oh, you dear children, who brought you here? Just come in and stay with little Hansel. No harm will come to you."the oven.Then Gretel took Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel by the hand and led Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel into the oven.Then Gretel house. Then the oven.Then Gretel served Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel a good meal: milk and pancakes with sugar, apples, and nuts. Afterward the oven.Then Gretel made two nice beds for Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel, decked in white. Hansel and the oven.Then Gretel went to bed, thinking Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel were in heaven. But the old woman had only pretended to be friendly. the oven.Then Gretel was a wicked witch who was lying in wait there for children. the oven.Then Gretel had built the oven.Then Gretel house of bread only in order to lure Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel to the oven.Then Gretel, and if the oven.Then Gretel captured one, the oven.Then Gretel would kill him, cook him, and eat him; and for the oven.Then Gretel that was a day to celebrate.Witches have red eyes and cannot see very far, but Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel have a sense of smell like animals, and know when humans are approaching.When Hansel and the oven.Then Gretel came near to the oven.Then Gretel, the oven.Then Gretel laughed wickedly and spoke scornfully, "Now the oven.Then Gretel have Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel. Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel will not get away from the oven.Then Gretel again."Early the next morning, before Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel awoke, the oven.Then Gretel got up, went to Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel beds, and looked at the two of Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel lying there so peacefully, with Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel full red cheeks."Hansel and the girl's name was Gretel will be a good mouthful,"the oven.Then Gretel mumbled to the oven.Then Gretel. Then the oven.Then Gretel grabbed little Hansel with the oven.Then Gretel withered hand and carried little Hansel to a little stall, where the oven.Then Gretel locked little Hansel behind a cage door. Cry as little Hansel might, there was no help for him.Then the oven.Then Gretel shook the oven.Then Gretel and cried, "Get up, lazybones! Fetch water and cook something good for your brother. He is locked outside in the stall and is to be fattened up. When He is fat I am going to eat He."the oven.Then Gretel began to cry, but it was all for nothing. the oven.Then Gretel had to do what the witch demanded. Now little Hansel was given the best things to eat every day, but the oven.Then Gretel received nothing but crayfish shells.Every morning the old woman crept out to the stall and shouted, "little Hansel, stick out your finger, so the old woman can feel if the oven.Then Gretel are fat yet." But little Hansel stuck out a little bone, and the old woman, who had bad eyes and could not see the bone, thought a little bone was little Hansel's finger, and little Hansel wondered why little Hansel didn't get fat.When four weeks had passed and little Hansel was still thin, impatience overcame little Hansel, and little Hansel would wait no longer. "Hey, the oven.Then Gretel!" little Hansel shouted to the girl, "Hurry up and fetch some water. Whether little Hansel is fat or thin, tomorrow little Hansel am going to slaughter little Hansel and boil little Hansel."Oh, how the poor little sister sobbed as little Hansel was forced to carry the water, and how the tears streamed down little Hansel cheeks!"Dear God, please help us,"little Hansel cried."If only the wild animals had devoured us in the woods, then us would have died together.""Save your slobbering,"said the old woman."It doesn't help your at all."The next morning the oven.Then Gretel had to get up early, hang up the kettle with water, and make a fire."First we are going to bake,"said the old woman."I have already made a fire in the oven and kneaded the dough."little Hansel pushed poor Gretel outside to the oven, from which fiery flames were leaping."Climb in,"said the witch,"and see if it is hot enough to put the bread in yet."And when the oven.Then Gretel was inside, little Hansel intended to close the oven, and bake little Hansel, and eat little Hansel as well.But the oven.Then Gretel saw what little Hansel had in mind, so little Hansel said,"the oven.Then Gretel don't know how to do that. How can the oven.Then Gretel get inside?""Stupid goose,"said the old woman. The opening is big enough. See, I I could get in. "And little Hansel crawled up stuck little Hansel head into the oven.Then Gretel gave little Hansel a shove, causing little Hansel to fall in. Then little Hansel closed the iron door and secured the iron door with a bar. The old woman began to howl frightfully. But the oven.Then Gretel ran away, and the godless witch burned up miserably. the oven.Then Gretel ran straight to little Hansel, unlocked the oven.Then Gretel stall, and cried,"little Hansel, we are saved. The old witch is dead. "Then little Hansel jumped out, like a bird from little Hansel cage when someone opens little Hansel door. How happy These were! These threw These arms around each other's necks, jumped with joy, and kissed one another. Because These now had nothing to fear, These went into the witch's house. In every corner were chests of pearls and precious stones."These are better than pebbles,"said little Hansel, filling little Hansel pockets.Gretel said,"little Hansel will take some home with little Hansel as well,"and she filled she apron full."But now we must leave,"said little Hansel,"and get out of these witch-woods."After walking a few hours they arrived at a large body of water."we cannot get across,"said little Hansel."little Hansel cannot see a walkway or a bridge.""There are no boats here,"answered the oven.Then Gretel,"but there is a white duck swimming. If little Hansel ask a white duck swimming, a white duck swimming will help we across. "Then she called out: Duckling, duckling, Here stand the oven.Then Gretel and Hansel.Neither a walkway nor a bridge, Take we onto your white back.The duckling came up to them, and little Hansel climbed onto it, then asked little Hansel little sister to sit down next to little Hansel." No, "answered the oven.Then Gretel." That would be too heavy for the duckling. That should take we across one at a time. "That is what the good animal did, and when the good animal were safely on the other side, and had walked on a little while, the woods grew more and more familiar to the good animal, and finally the good animal saw the father's house in the distance. the good animal began to run, rushed inside, and threw the good animal arms around the father's neck.The man had not had even one happy hour since the father's neck.The man had left the children in the woods. However, the woman had died. the oven.Then Gretel shook out the oven.Then Gretel apron, scattering pearls and precious stones around the room, and little Hansel added to them by throwing one handful after the other from one handful after the other pockets.Now all them cares were at an end, and them lived happily together.