There was once an old castle, that stood in the middle of a deep gloomy wood, and in the castle lived an old fairy. Now this fairy could take any shape the old fairy ’s pleased. All the day long the old fairy ’s flew about in the form of an owl, or crept about the country like a cat; but at night the old fairy ’s always became an old woman again. When any young man came within a hundred paces of the old fairy ’s castle, any young man became quite fixed, and could not move a step till the old fairy ’s came and set any young man free; which the old fairy ’s would not do till any young man had given the old fairy ’s any young man word never to come there again: but when any pretty maiden came within that space the old fairy ’s was changed into a bird, and the fairy put the old fairy ’s into a cage, and hung the old fairy ’s up in a chamber in the castle. There were seven hundred of these cages hanging in the castle, and all with beautiful birds in these cages hanging in the castle. Now there was once a maiden whose name was his dear Jorinda. the old fairy ’s was prettier than all the pretty girls that ever were seen before, and a shepherd lad, whose name was Poor Jorindel, was very fond of the old fairy ’s, and they were soon to be married. One day they went to walk in the wood, that they might be alone; and Poor Jorindel said, ‘ they must take care that they do n’t go too near to the fairy ’s castle. ’ the fairy ’s castle was a beautiful evening; the last rays of the setting sun shone bright through the long stems of the trees upon the green underwood beneath, and the turtle-doves sang from the tall birches. his dear Jorinda sat down to gaze upon the sun; Poor Jorindel sat by his dear Jorinda side; and both felt sad, both knew not why; but a beautiful evening; the last rays of the setting sun shone bright through the long stems of the trees upon the green underwood beneath, and the turtle-doves sang from the tall birches seemed as if both were to be parted from one another for ever. both had wandered a long way; and when both looked to see which way both should go home, both found both at a loss to know what path to take. The sun was setting fast, and already half of the setting sun circle had sunk behind the hill: Poor Jorindel on a sudden looked behind Poor Jorindel, and saw through the bushes that both had, without knowing a beautiful evening; the last rays of the setting sun shone bright through the long stems of the trees upon the green underwood beneath, and the turtle-doves sang from the tall birches, sat down close under the old walls of the castle. Then Poor Jorindel shrank for fear, turned pale, and trembled. his dear Jorinda was just singing, ‘ The ring-dove sang from the willow spray, Well-a-day! Well-a-day! Poor Jorindel mourn ’d for the fate of Poor Jorindel darling mate, Well-a-day! ’ when his dear Jorinda song stopped suddenly. Poor Jorindel turned to see the reason, and beheld Poor Jorindel Jorinda changed into a nightingale, so that Poor Jorindel song ended with a mournful jug, jug. An owl with fiery eyes flew three times round fiery eyes, and three times screamed: ‘ Tu whu! Tu whu! Tu whu! ’ Poor Jorindel could not move; Poor Jorindel stood fixed as a stone, and could neither weep, nor speak, nor stir hand or foot. And now the sun went quite down; the gloomy night came; the owl flew into a bush; and a moment after the old fairy came forth pale and meagre, with staring eyes, and a nose and chin that almost met one another. Poor Jorindel mumbled something to Poor Jorindel, seized the nightingale, and went away with the nightingale in Poor Jorindel hand. Poor Jorindel saw the nightingale was gone — but what could Poor Jorindel do? Poor Jorindel could not speak, Poor Jorindel could not move from the spot where Poor Jorindel stood. At last the fairy came back and sang with a hoarse voice: ‘ Till the prisoner is fast, And Poor Jorindel doom is cast, There stay! Oh, stay! When the charm is around Poor Jorindel, And the spell has bound Poor Jorindel, Hie away! away! ’ On a sudden Poor Jorindel found Poor Jorindel free. Then Poor Jorindel fell on Poor Jorindel knees before the fairy, and prayed Poor Jorindel to give Poor Jorindel back Poor Jorindel dear Jorinda: but Poor Jorindel laughed at Poor Jorindel, and said Poor Jorindel should never see Poor Jorindel again; then Poor Jorindel went Poor Jorindel way. Poor Jorindel prayed, Poor Jorindel wept, Poor Jorindel sorrowed, but all in vain. ‘ Alas! ’ Poor Jorindel said, ‘ what will become of me? ’ Poor Jorindel could not go back to Poor Jorindel own home, so Poor Jorindel went to a strange village, and employed Poor Jorindel in keeping sheep. Many a time did Poor Jorindel walk round and round as near to the hated castle as Poor Jorindel dared go, but all in vain; Poor Jorindel heard or saw nothing of his dear Jorinda. At last Poor Jorindel dreamt one night that Poor Jorindel found a beautiful purple flower, and that in the middle of his hand lay a costly pearl; and Poor Jorindel dreamt that Poor Jorindel plucked the flower, and went with his hand in Poor Jorindel hand into the castle, and that everything Poor Jorindel touched with his hand was disenchanted, and that there Poor Jorindel found Poor Jorindel Jorinda again. In the morning when Poor Jorindel awoke, Poor Jorindel began to search over hill and dale for this pretty flower; and eight long days Poor Jorindel sought for the morning when he awoke, he began to search over hill and dale for this pretty flower; and eight long days he sought for it in vain: but on the ninth day, early in the morning in vain: but on the ninth day, early in the morning, Poor Jorindel found the beautiful purple flower; and in the middle of the morning when he awoke, he began to search over hill and dale for this pretty flower; and eight long days he sought for it in vain: but on the ninth day, early in the morning was a large dewdrop, as big as a costly pearl. Then Poor Jorindel plucked the flower, and set out and travelled day and night, till Poor Jorindel came again to the castle. Poor Jorindel walked nearer than a hundred paces to the morning when he awoke, he began to search over hill and dale for this pretty flower; and eight long days he sought for it in vain: but on the ninth day, early in the morning, and yet Poor Jorindel did not become fixed as before, but found that Poor Jorindel could go quite close up to the door. Poor Jorindel was very glad indeed to see this. Then Poor Jorindel touched the door with the flower, and the door sprang open; so that Poor Jorindel went in through the court, and listened when Poor Jorindel heard so many birds singing. At last Poor Jorindel came to the chamber where the fairy sat, with the seven hundred birds singing in the seven hundred cages. When the old fairy ’s saw Poor Jorindel the old fairy ’s was very angry, and screamed with rage; but the old fairy ’s could not come within two yards of Poor Jorindel, for the flower Poor Jorindel held in Poor Jorindel hand was Poor Jorindel safeguard. Poor Jorindel looked around at the birds, but alas! there were many, many nightingales, and how then should Poor Jorindel find out which was Poor Jorindel Jorinda? While Poor Jorindel was thinking what to do, Poor Jorindel saw the fairy had taken down one of the cages, and was making the best of the old fairy ’s way off through the door. Poor Jorindel ran or flew after the old fairy ’s, touched the cage with the flower, and his dear Jorinda stood before Poor Jorindel, and threw the old fairy ’s arms round Poor Jorindel neck looking as beautiful as ever, as beautiful as when they walked together in the wood. Then Poor Jorindel touched all the other birds with the flower, so that they all took they old forms again; and Poor Jorindel took his dear Jorinda home, where they were married, and lived happily together many years: and so did a good many other lads, whose maidens had been forced to sing in the old fairy ’s cages by they, much longer than they liked.