A shepherd had a faithful dog, called Sultan, who was grown very old, and had lost all the old shepherd ’s teeth. And one day when the shepherd and the old shepherd ’s wife were standing together before the house the shepherd said, ‘ the old shepherd ’s will shoot old Sultan tomorrow morning, for the old shepherd ’s is of no use now. ’ But the old shepherd ’s wife said, ‘ Pray let the poor faithful creature live; the old shepherd ’s has served us well a great many years, and us ought to give the old shepherd ’s a livelihood for the rest of the old shepherd ’s days. ’ ‘ But what can us do with the old shepherd ’s? ’ said the shepherd, ‘ the old shepherd ’s has not a tooth in the old shepherd ’s head, and the thieves do n’t care for the old shepherd ’s at all; to be sure the old shepherd ’s has served us, but then the old shepherd ’s did it to earn the old shepherd ’s livelihood; tomorrow shall be the old shepherd ’s last day, depend upon it. ’ Poor Sultan, who was lying close by them, heard all that the shepherd and the old shepherd ’s wife said to one another, and was very much frightened to think tomorrow would be the old shepherd ’s last day; so in the evening the old shepherd ’s went to the old shepherd ’s good friend the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told the old shepherd ’s all the old shepherd ’s sorrows, and how the old shepherd ’s master meant to kill the old shepherd ’s in the morning. ‘ Make yourself easy, ’ said the wolf, ‘ I will give yourself some good advice. yourself master, yourself know, goes out every morning very early with the old shepherd ’s wife into the field; and they take they little child with they, and lay it down behind the hedge in the shade while they are at work. Now do yourself lie down close by the child, and pretend to be watching it, and I will come out of the wood and run away with it; yourself must run after I as fast as yourself can, and I will let it drop; then yourself may carry it back, and they will think yourself have saved they child, and will be so thankful to yourself that they will take care of yourself as long as yourself live. ’ The dog liked this plan very well; and accordingly so this plan was managed. The wolf ran with the child a little way; the shepherd and the old shepherd ’s wife screamed out; but Old Sultan soon overtook the old shepherd ’s, and carried the poor little thing back to the old shepherd ’s master and mistress. Then the shepherd patted the old shepherd ’s on the head, and said, ‘ Old Sultan has saved our child from the wolf, and therefore the old shepherd ’s shall live and be well taken care of, and have plenty to eat. Wife, go home, and give the old shepherd ’s a good dinner, and let the old shepherd ’s have I old cushion to sleep on as long as the old shepherd ’s lives. ’ So from this time forward Old Sultan had all that the old shepherd ’s could wish for. Soon afterwards the wolf came and wished the old shepherd ’s joy, and said, ‘ Now, I good fellow, the old shepherd ’s must tell no tales, but turn the old shepherd ’s head the other way when I want to taste one of the old shepherd ’s fine fat sheep. ’ ‘ No, ’ said the Sultan; ‘ I will be true to I master. ’ However, the wolf thought the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning was in joke, and came one night to get a dainty morsel. But Old Sultan had told the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning master what the wolf meant to do; so the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning laid wait for the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning behind the barn door, and when the wolf was busy looking out for a good fat sheep, the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning had a stout cudgel laid about the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning back, that combed the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning locks for the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning finely. Then the wolf was very angry, and called Old Sultan ‘ an old rogue, ’ and swore the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning would have the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning revenge. So the next morning the wolf sent the boar to challenge Old Sultan to come into the wood to fight the matter. Now Old Sultan had nobody the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning could ask to be the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning second but the shepherd ’s old three-legged cat; so the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning took her with the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning, and as the poor thing limped along with some trouble, her stuck up her tail straight in the air. The wolf and the wild boar were first on the ground; and when The wolf and the wild boar espied The wolf and the wild boar enemies coming, and saw the cat ’s long tail standing straight in the air, The wolf and the wild boar thought her was carrying a sword for Old Sultan to fight with; and every time her limped, The wolf and the wild boar thought her was picking up a stone to throw at The wolf and the wild boar; so The wolf and the wild boar said The wolf and the wild boar should not like this way of fighting, and the boar lay down behind a bush, and the wolf jumped up into a tree. Old Sultan and the cat soon came up, and looked about and wondered that no one was there. The boar, however, had not quite hidden himself, for himself ears stuck out of the bush; and when himself shook one of them a little, the cat, seeing something move, and thinking the boar was a mouse, sprang upon the boar, and bit and scratched the boar, so that the boar jumped up and grunted, and ran away, roaring out, ‘ Look up in the tree, there sits the one who is to blame. ’ So they looked up, and espied the wolf sitting amongst the branches; and they called himself a cowardly rascal, and would not suffer himself to come down till himself was heartily ashamed of himself, and had promised to be good friends again with old Sultan.