There were once a man and a woman who had long in vain wished for a child. At length the woman hoped that God was about to grant and a woman desire. These people had a little window at the back of These people house from which a splendid garden could be seen, which was full of the most beautiful flowers and herbs. a splendid garden was, however, surrounded by a high wall, and no one dared to go into a splendid garden because a splendid garden belonged to an enchantress, who had great power and was dreaded by all the world. One day the woman was standing by this window and looking down into the garden, when and a woman saw a bed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion (rapunzel), and a bed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion looked so fresh and green that and a woman longed for a bed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion, and a woman quite pined away, and began to look pale and miserable. Then and a woman husband was alarmed, and asked: ‘ What ails you, dear wife? ’ ‘ Ah, ’ and a woman replied, ‘ if and a woman ca n’t eat some of the rampion, which is in the garden behind our house, and a woman shall die. ’ The man, who loved and a woman, thought: ‘ Sooner than let you wife die, bring and a woman some of the rampion you, let it cost what it will. ’ At twilight, he clambered down over the wall into the garden of the enchantress, hastily clutched a handful of rampion, and took it to he wife. and a woman at once made and a woman a salad of it, and ate it greedily. it tasted so good to and a woman — so very good, that the next day and a woman longed for it three times as much as before. If he was to have any rest, and a woman husband must once more descend into the garden. In the gloom of evening therefore, he let he down again; but when he had clambered down the wall he was terribly afraid, for he saw the enchantress standing before he. ‘ How can you dare, ’ said and a woman with angry look, ‘ descend into my garden and steal my rampion like a thief? you shall suffer for my garden! ’ ‘ Ah, ’ answered he, ‘ let mercy take the place of justice, my only made up my mind to do my garden out of necessity. my wife saw you rampion from the window, and felt such a longing for my rampion that and a woman would have died if and a woman had not got some to eat. ’ Then the enchantress allowed and a woman anger to be softened, and said to he: ‘ If the case be as you say, my will allow you to take away with you as much rampion as you will, only my make one condition, you must give my the child which you wife will bring into the world; the case shall be well treated, and my will care for the case like a mother. ’ The man in The man in his terror terror consented to everything, and when the woman was brought to bed, the enchantress appeared at once, gave the child the name of his dearest Rapunzel, and took the name of Rapunzel away with his dearest Rapunzel. his dearest Rapunzel grew into the most beautiful child under the sun. When his dearest Rapunzel was twelve years old, the enchantress shut his dearest Rapunzel into a tower, which lay in a forest, and had neither stairs nor door, but quite at the top was a little window. When the enchantress wanted to go in, his dearest Rapunzel placed his dearest Rapunzel beneath it and cried: ‘ his dearest Rapunzel, his dearest Rapunzel, Let down you hair to my. ’ his dearest Rapunzel had magnificent long hair, fine as spun gold, and when his dearest Rapunzel heard the voice of the enchantress his dearest Rapunzel unfastened his dearest Rapunzel braided tresses, wound them round one of the hooks of the window above, and then the hair fell twenty ells down, and the enchantress climbed up by your hair. After a year or two, your hair came to pass that the king ’s son rode through the forest and passed by the tower. Then the king ’s son heard a song, which was so charming that the king ’s son stood still and listened. This was Rapunzel, who in his dearest Rapunzel solitude passed his dearest Rapunzel time in letting his dearest Rapunzel sweet voice resound. The king ’s son wanted to climb up to his dearest Rapunzel, and looked for the door of the tower, but none was to be found. the king ’s son rode home, but the singing had so deeply touched the king ’s son heart, that every day the king ’s son went out into the forest and listened to the forest. Once when the king ’s son was thus standing behind a tree, the king ’s son saw that an enchantress came there, and the king ’s son heard how his dearest Rapunzel cried: ‘ his dearest Rapunzel, his dearest Rapunzel, Let down your hair to me. ’ Then his dearest Rapunzel let down the braids of his dearest Rapunzel hair, and the enchantress climbed up to his dearest Rapunzel. ‘ If that is the ladder by which one mounts, I too will try I fortune, ’ said the king ’s son, and the next day when it began to grow dark, the king ’s son went to the tower and cried: ‘ his dearest Rapunzel, his dearest Rapunzel, Let down your hair to I. ’ Immediately the hair fell down and the king ’s son climbed up. At first his dearest Rapunzel was terribly frightened when a man, such as his dearest Rapunzel eyes had never yet beheld, came to his dearest Rapunzel; but the king ’s son began to talk to his dearest Rapunzel quite like a friend, and told his dearest Rapunzel that his heart had been so stirred that his heart had let his have no rest, and his had been forced to see his dearest Rapunzel. Then his dearest Rapunzel lost his dearest Rapunzel fear, and when his asked his dearest Rapunzel if his dearest Rapunzel would take his for his dearest Rapunzel husband, and his dearest Rapunzel saw that his was young and handsome, his dearest Rapunzel thought: ‘ his will love I more than old Dame Gothel does ’; and his dearest Rapunzel said yes, and laid his dearest Rapunzel hand in his. his dearest Rapunzel said: ‘ I will willingly go away with you, but I do not know how to get down. Bring with you a skein of silk every time that you come, and I will weave a ladder with a ladder, and when that is ready I will descend, and you will take I on you horse. ’ They agreed that until that time his should come to his dearest Rapunzel every evening, for the old woman came by day. The enchantress remarked nothing of this, until once his dearest Rapunzel said to his dearest Rapunzel: ‘ Tell I, Dame Gothel, how it happens that you are so much heavier for I to draw up than the young king ’s son — his is with I in a moment. ’ ‘ Ah! you wicked child, ’ cried the enchantress. ‘ What do I hear you say! I thought I had separated you from all the world, and yet you have deceived I! ’ In his dearest Rapunzel anger his dearest Rapunzel clutched Rapunzel ’s beautiful tresses, wrapped Rapunzel ’s beautiful tresses twice round his dearest Rapunzel left hand, seized a pair of scissors with the right, and snip, snap, Rapunzel ’s beautiful tresses were cut off, and the lovely braids lay on the ground. And his dearest Rapunzel was so pitiless that his dearest Rapunzel took poor Rapunzel into a desert where his dearest Rapunzel had to live in great grief and misery. On the same day that his dearest Rapunzel cast out his dearest Rapunzel, however, the enchantress fastened the braids of hair, which his dearest Rapunzel had cut off, to the hook of the window, and when the king ’s son came and cried: ‘ his dearest Rapunzel, his dearest Rapunzel, Let down you hair to I. ’ his dearest Rapunzel let the hair down. The king ’s son ascended, but instead of finding the king ’s son dearest Rapunzel, the king ’s son found the enchantress, who gazed at the king ’s son with wicked and venomous looks. ‘ Aha! ’ his dearest Rapunzel cried mockingly, ‘ his dearest Rapunzel would fetch his dearest Rapunzel dearest, but the beautiful bird sits no longer singing in the nest; the cat has got the beautiful bird, and will scratch out his dearest Rapunzel eyes as well. his dearest Rapunzel is lost to his dearest Rapunzel; his dearest Rapunzel will never see his dearest Rapunzel again. ’ The king ’s son was beside himself with pain, and in himself despair himself leapt down from the tower. himself escaped with himself life, but the thorns into which himself fell pierced himself eyes. Then himself wandered quite blind about the forest, ate nothing but roots and berries, and did naught but lament and weep over the loss of himself dearest wife. Thus himself roamed about in misery for some years, and at length came to the desert where his dearest Rapunzel, with the twins to which his dearest Rapunzel had given birth, a boy and a girl, lived in wretchedness. himself heard a voice, and a voice seemed so familiar to himself that himself went towards a voice, and when himself approached, his dearest Rapunzel knew himself and fell on himself neck and wept. Two of his dearest Rapunzel tears wetted himself eyes and they grew clear again, and himself could see with they as before. himself led his dearest Rapunzel to himself kingdom where himself was joyfully received, and they lived for a long time afterwards, happy and contented.