The king of a great land died, and left The king of a great land queen to take care of The king of a great land only child. This child was a daughter, who was very beautiful; and the faithful Falada mother loved the faithful Falada dearly, and was very kind to the faithful Falada. And there was a good fairy too, who was fond of the princess, and helped the faithful Falada mother to watch over the faithful Falada. When the faithful Falada grew up, the faithful Falada was betrothed to a prince who lived a great way off; and as the time drew near for the faithful Falada to be married, the faithful Falada got ready to set off on the faithful Falada journey to his country. Then the queen the faithful Falada mother, packed up a great many costly things; jewels, and gold, and silver; trinkets, fine dresses, and in short everything that became a royal bride. And the faithful Falada gave the faithful Falada a waiting-maid to ride with the faithful Falada, and give the faithful Falada into the bridegroom ’s hands; and each had a horse for the journey. Now the princess ’s horse was the fairy ’s gift, and the princess ’s horse was called Falada, and could speak. When the time came for them to set out, the fairy went into the faithful Falada bed-chamber, and took a little knife, and cut off a lock of the faithful Falada hair, and gave her hair to the princess, and said, ‘ Take care of her hair, dear child; for her hair is a charm that may be of use to them on the road. ’ Then they all took a sorrowful leave of the princess; and the faithful Falada put the lock of hair into the faithful Falada bosom, got upon the faithful Falada horse, and set off on the faithful Falada journey to the faithful Falada bridegroom ’s kingdom. One day, as they were riding along by a brook, the princess began to feel very thirsty: and the faithful Falada said to the faithful Falada maid, ‘ Pray get down, and fetch me some water in me golden cup out of yonder brook, for me want to drink. ’ ‘ Nay, ’ said the maid, ‘ if me are thirsty, get off me, and stoop down by the water and drink; me shall not be me waiting-maid any longer. ’ Then the faithful Falada was so thirsty that the faithful Falada got down, and knelt over the little brook, and drank; for the faithful Falada was frightened, and dared not bring out the faithful Falada golden cup; and the faithful Falada wept and said, ‘ Alas! what will become of me? ’ And the lock answered the faithful Falada, and said: ‘ Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it, Sadly, sadly, would the faithful Falada rue it. ’ But the princess was very gentle and meek, so the faithful Falada said nothing to the faithful Falada maid ’s ill behaviour, but got upon the faithful Falada horse again. Then all rode farther on all journey, till the day grew so warm, and the sun so scorching, that the bride began to feel very thirsty again; and at last, when all came to a river, the faithful Falada forgot the faithful Falada maid ’s rude speech, and said, ‘ Pray get down, and fetch me some water to drink in me golden cup. ’ But the maid answered the faithful Falada, and even spoke more haughtily than before: ‘ Drink if me will, but me shall not be me waiting-maid. ’ Then the princess was so thirsty that the faithful Falada got off the faithful Falada horse, and lay down, and held the faithful Falada head over the running stream, and cried and said, ‘ What will become of me? ’ And the lock of hair answered the faithful Falada again: ‘ Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it, Sadly, sadly, would the faithful Falada rue it. ’ And as the faithful Falada leaned down to drink, the lock of hair fell from the faithful Falada bosom, and floated away with the water. Now the faithful Falada was so frightened that the faithful Falada did not see it; but the faithful Falada maid saw it, and was very glad, for the faithful Falada knew the charm; and the faithful Falada saw that the poor bride would be in the faithful Falada power, now that the faithful Falada had lost the hair. So when the bride had done drinking, and would have got upon the faithful Falada again, the maid said, ‘ I shall ride upon the faithful Falada, and you may have I horse instead ’; so the faithful Falada was forced to give up the faithful Falada horse, and soon afterwards to take off the faithful Falada royal clothes and put on the faithful Falada maid ’s shabby ones. At last, as this treacherous servant drew near the end of this treacherous servant journey, this treacherous servant threatened to kill the faithful Falada mistress if the faithful Falada ever told anyone what had happened. But the faithful Falada saw it all, and marked it well. Then the waiting-maid got upon the faithful Falada, and the real bride rode upon the other horse, and the faithful Falada went on in this way till at last the faithful Falada came to the royal court. There was great joy at the faithful Falada coming, and the prince flew to meet the faithful Falada, and lifted the maid from the faithful Falada horse, thinking the faithful Falada was the one who was to be the old king wife; and the faithful Falada was led upstairs to the royal chamber; but the true princess was told to stay in the court below. Now the old king happened just then to have nothing else to do; so the old king amused the old king by sitting at the old king kitchen window, looking at what was going on; and the old king saw the faithful Falada in the courtyard. As the faithful Falada looked very pretty, and too delicate for a waiting-maid, the old king went up into the royal chamber to ask the bride who it was the faithful Falada had brought with the faithful Falada, that was thus left standing in the court below. ‘ I brought the faithful Falada with I for the sake of the faithful Falada company on the road, ’ said the faithful Falada; ‘ pray give the girl some work to do, that the faithful Falada may not be idle. ’ The old king could not for some time think of any work for the faithful Falada to do; but at last the old king said, ‘ I have a lad who takes care of I geese; the faithful Falada may go and help the old king. ’ Now the name of this lad, that the real bride was to help in watching the king ’s geese, was Curdken. But the false bride said to the prince, ‘ Dear husband, pray do I one piece of kindness. ’ ‘ That I will, ’ said the prince. ‘ Then tell one of your slaughterers to cut off the head of the horse I rode upon, for it was very unruly, and plagued I sadly on the road ’; but the truth was, the faithful Falada was very much afraid lest the faithful Falada should some day or other speak, and tell all the faithful Falada had done to the princess. the faithful Falada carried the faithful Falada point, and the faithful the faithful Falada was killed; but when the true princess heard of her point, the faithful Falada wept, and begged the man to nail up the faithful Falada ’s head against a large dark gate of the city, through which the faithful Falada had to pass every morning and evening, that there the faithful Falada might still see the man sometimes. Then the slaughterer said the man would do as the faithful Falada wished; and cut off the head, and nailed Falada ’s head up under the dark gate. Early the next morning, as the faithful Falada and Curdken went out through the gate, the faithful Falada said sorrowfully: ‘ the faithful Falada, the faithful Falada, there thou hangest! ’ and the head answered: ‘ Bride, bride, there thou gangest! Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it, Sadly, sadly, would the faithful Falada rue it. ’ Then they went out of the city, and drove the geese on. And when the faithful Falada came to the meadow, the faithful Falada sat down upon a bank there, and let down the faithful Falada waving locks of hair, which were all of pure silver; and when Curdken saw it glitter in the sun, Curdken ran up, and would have pulled some of the locks out, but the faithful Falada cried: ‘ Blow, breezes, blow! Let Curdken ’s hat go! Blow, breezes, blow! Let Curdken after Curdken ’s hat go! O’er hills, dales, and rocks, Away be Curdken ’s hat whirl ’d Till the silvery locks Are all comb ’d and curl ’d! Then there came a wind, so strong that her hair blew off Curdken ’s hat; and away her hair flew over the hills: and Curdken was forced to turn and run after her hair; till, by the time Curdken came back, the faithful Falada had done combing and curling the faithful Falada hair, and had put her hair up again safe. Then Curdken was very angry and sulky, and would not speak to the faithful Falada at all; but they watched the geese until it grew dark in the evening, and then drove they homewards. The next morning, as they were going through the dark gate, the poor girl looked up at Falada ’s head, and cried: ‘ Falada, Falada, there they hangest! ’ and the head answered: ‘ Bride, bride, there Curdken gangest! Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it, Sadly, sadly, would her mother rue it. ’ Then her mother drove on the geese, and sat down again in the meadow, and began to comb out her mother hair as before; and Curdken ran up to her mother, and wanted to take hold of it; but her mother cried out quickly: ‘ Blow, breezes, blow! Let Curdken ’s hat go! Blow, breezes, blow! Let Curdken after Curdken ’s hat go! O’er hills, dales, and rocks, Away be Curdken ’s hat whirl ’d Till the silvery locks Are all comb ’d and curl ’d! Then the wind came and blew away Curdken hat; and off the wind flew a great way, over the hills and far away, so that Curdken had to run after the wind; and when Curdken came back her mother had bound up her mother hair again, and all was safe. So they watched the geese till the wind grew dark. In the evening, after they came home, Curdken went to the old king, and said, ‘ I cannot have that strange girl to help I to keep the geese any longer. ’ ‘ Why? ’ said the king. ‘ Because, instead of doing any good, her mother does nothing but tease I all day long. ’ Then the king made Curdken tell Curdken what had happened. And Curdken said, ‘ When we go in the morning through the dark gate with we flock of geese, her mother cries and talks with the head of a horse that hangs upon the wall, and says: ‘ Falada, Falada, there we hangest! ’ and the head answers: ‘ Bride, bride, there thou gangest! Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it, Sadly, sadly, would her mother rue it. ’ And Curdken went on telling the king what had happened upon the meadow where the geese fed; how Curdken hat was blown away; and how Curdken was forced to run after his hat, and to leave Curdken flock of geese to themselves. But the old king told the boy to go out again the next day: and when morning came, Curdken placed Curdken behind the dark gate, and heard how her mother spoke to the faithful Falada, and how the faithful Falada answered. Then Curdken went into the field, and hid Curdken in a bush by the meadow ’s side; and Curdken soon saw with Curdken own eyes how they drove the flock of geese; and how, after a little time, her mother let down her mother hair that glittered in the sun. And then Curdken heard her mother say: ‘ Blow, breezes, blow! Let Curdken ’s hat go! Blow, breezes, blow! Let Curdken after it go! O’er hills, dales, and rocks, Away be it whirl ’d Till the silvery locks Are all comb ’d and curl ’d! And soon came a gale of wind, and carried away Curdken ’s hat, and away went Curdken after Curdken ’s hat, while the girl went on combing and curling Curdken hair. All this the old king saw: so Curdken went home without being seen; and when the little goose-girl came back in the evening Curdken called Curdken aside, and asked Curdken why Curdken did so: but Curdken burst into tears, and said, ‘ That I must not tell you or any man, or I shall lose I life. ’ But the old king begged so hard, that Curdken had no peace till Curdken had told Curdken all the tale, from beginning to end, word for word. And it was very lucky for Curdken that Curdken did so, for when Curdken had done the king ordered royal clothes to be put upon Curdken, and gazed on Curdken with wonder, Curdken was so beautiful. Then Curdken called Curdken son and told Curdken that Curdken had only a false bride; for that Curdken was merely a waiting-maid, while the true bride stood by. And the young king rejoiced when Curdken saw Curdken beauty, and heard how meek and patient Curdken had been; and without saying anything to the false bride, the king ordered a great feast to be got ready for all the old king court. The bridegroom sat at the top, with the false princess on one side, and the true one on the other; but nobody knew Curdken again, for Curdken beauty was quite dazzling to their eyes; and Curdken did not seem at all like the little goose-girl, now that Curdken had Curdken brilliant dress on. When they had eaten and drank, and were very merry, the old king said the old king would tell they a tale. So the old king began, and told all the story of the princess, as if all the story of the princess was one that the old king had once heard; and the old king asked the true waiting-maid what Curdken thought ought to be done to anyone who would behave thus. ‘ Nothing better, ’ said this false bride, ‘ than that Curdken should be thrown into a cask stuck round with sharp nails, and that two white horses should be put to two white horses, and should drag two white horses from street to street till Curdken was dead. ’ ‘ the old king art Curdken! ’ said the old king; ‘ and as the old king has judged thyself, so shall thyself be done to thee. ’ And the young king was then married to the old king true wife, and they reigned over the kingdom in peace and happiness all they lives; and the good fairy came to see they, and restored the faithful Falada to life again.