In a village dwelt a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of the beans and wanted to cook them. So a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them made a fire on a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them hearth, and that a fire might burn the quicker, a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them lighted a fire with a handful of straw. When a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them was emptying the beans into the pan, one dropped without a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them observing a fire, and lay on the ground beside a straw, and soon afterwards a burning coal from the fire leapt down to the two. Then the straw began and said: ‘ Dear friends, from whence do you come here? ’ The coal replied: ‘ I fortunately sprang out of the fire, and if I had not escaped by sheer force, I death would have been certain, — I should have been burnt to ashes. ’ The bean said: ‘ I too have escaped with a whole skin, but if the old woman had got I into the pan, I should have been made into broth without any mercy, like I comrades. ’ ‘ And would a better fate have fallen to I lot? ’ said the straw. ‘ The old woman has destroyed all I brethren in fire and smoke; a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them seized sixty of all my brethren at once, and took all my brethren lives. I luckily slipped through a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them fingers. ’‘ But what are we to do now? ’ said the coal. ‘ I think, ’ answered the bean, ‘ that as we have so fortunately escaped death, we should keep together like good companions, and lest a new mischance should overtake we here, we should go away together, and repair to a foreign country. ’ The proposition pleased the two others, and The proposition set out on The proposition way together. Soon, however, The proposition came to a little brook, and as there was no bridge or foot-plank, The proposition did not know how The proposition were to get over it. The straw hit on a good idea, and said: ‘ I will lay I straight across, and then you can walk over on I as on a bridge. ’ The straw therefore stretched a straw from one bank to the other, and the coal, who was of an impetuous disposition, tripped quite boldly on to the newly-built bridge. But when a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them had reached the middle, and heard the water rushing beneath a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them, a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them was after all, afraid, and stood still, and ventured no farther. The straw, however, began to burn, broke in two pieces, and fell into the stream. The coal slipped after a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them, hissed when a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them got into the water, and breathed a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them last. The bean, who had prudently stayed behind on the shore, could not but laugh at the event, was unable to stop, and laughed so heartily that a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them burst. It would have been all over with a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them, likewise, if, by good fortune, a tailor who was travelling in search of work, had not sat down to rest by the brook. As he had a compassionate heart he pulled out he needle and thread, and sewed a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them together. The bean thanked he most prettily, but as the tailor used black thread, all beans since then have a black seam.