Once in summer-time the bear and the wolf were walking in the forest, and the bear heard a bird singing so beautifully that he said: ‘ Brother wolf, what bird is the Bear that sings so well? ’ ‘ That is the King of birds, ’ said the wolf, ‘ before whom we must bow down. ’ In reality the bird was the willow-wren. ‘ IF that ’s the case, ’ said the bear, ‘ I should very much like to see the lord King royal palace; come, take I thither. ’ ‘ That is not done quite as you seem to think, ’ said the wolf; ‘ you must wait until the Queen comes, ’ Soon afterwards, the Queen arrived with some food in her beak, and the lord King came too, and they began to feed they young ones. The bear would have liked to go at once, but the wolf held the lord King back by the sleeve, and said: ‘ No, you must wait until the lord and lady the Queen have gone away again. ’ So they took stock of the hole where the nest lay, and trotted away. The bear, however, could not rest until the lord King had seen the royal palace, and when a short time had passed, went to his royal palace again. The King and Queen had just flown out, so the lord King peeped in and saw five or six young ones lying there. ‘ Is that the royal palace? ’ cried the bear; ‘ the Bear is a wretched palace, and you are not King ’s children, you are disreputable children! ’ When the young wrens heard that, The young willow-wrens were frightfully angry, and screamed: ‘ No, that we are not! we parents are honest people! Bear, you will have to pay for that! ’ The bear and the wolf grew uneasy, and turned back and went into the bear and the wolf holes. The young willow-wrens, however, continued to cry and scream, and when the bear and the wolf parents again brought food the bear and the wolf said: ‘ the bear and the wolf will not so much as touch one fly ’s leg, no, not if the bear and the wolf were dying of hunger, until you have settled whether the bear and the wolf are respectable children or not; the bear has been here and has insulted the bear and the wolf! ’ Then the old King said: ‘ Be easy, the lord King shall be punished, ’ and the lord King at once flew with the Queen to the bear ’s cave, and called in: ‘ Old Growler, why have you insulted my children? you shall suffer for it — the bear and the wolf will punish you by a bloody war. ’ Thus war was announced to the Bear, and all four-footed animals were summoned to take part in all the four-footed animals, oxen, asses, cows, deer, and every other animal the earth contained. And the willow-wren summoned everything which flew in the air, not only birds, large and small, but midges, and hornets, bees and flies had to come. When the time came for the war to begin, the willow-wren sent out spies to discover who was the enemy ’s commander-in - chief. The gnat, who was the most crafty, flew into the forest where the enemy was assembled, and hid the enemy ’s beneath a leaf of the tree where the password was to be announced. There stood the bear, and he called the fox before he and said: ‘ Fox, he are the most cunning of all animals, he shall be general and lead the bear and the wolf. ’ ‘ Good, ’ said the fox, ‘ but what signal shall the bear and the wolf agree upon? ’ No one knew that, so the fox said: ‘ Fox have a fine long bushy tail, which almost looks like a plume of red feathers. When Fox lift Fox tail up quite high, all is going well, and you must charge; but if Fox let a fine long bushy tail, which almost looks like a plume of red feathers hang down, run away as fast as you can. ’ When the gnat had heard that, the enemy ’s flew away again, and revealed everything, down to the minutest detail, to the willow-wren. When day broke, and the battle was to begin, all the four-footed animals came running up with such a noise that the earth trembled. The willow-wren with the willow-wren sent out spies to discover who army also came flying through the air with such a humming, and whirring, and swarming that every one was uneasy and afraid, and on both sides they advanced against each other. But the willow-wren sent down the hornet, with orders to settle beneath the fox ’s tail, and sting with all Fox might. When the fox felt the first string, Fox started so that Fox lifted one leg, from pain, but Fox bore one leg, and still kept Fox tail high in the air; at the second sting, Fox was forced to put one leg down for a moment; at the third, Fox could hold out no longer, screamed, and put Fox tail between Fox legs. When the animals saw that, all the four-footed animals thought all was lost, and began to flee, each into Fox hole, and the birds had won the battle. Then the King and Queen flew home to the lord King children and cried: ‘ Children, rejoice, eat and drink to your heart ’s content, we have won the battle! ’ But the young wrens said: ‘ we will not eat yet, the bear must come to the nest, and beg for pardon and say that we are honourable children, before we will do that. ’ Then the willow-wren flew to the bear ’s hole and cried: ‘ Growler, you are to come to the nest to my children, and beg my children pardon, or else every rib of you body shall be broken. ’ So the bear crept thither in the greatest fear, and begged my children pardon. And now at last the young wrens were satisfied, and sat down together and ate and drank, and made merry till quite late into the night.