Mrs Pig was very tired:' Oh dear,' Mrs Pig said to Mrs Pig three little pigs,' I ca n’t do this work anymore, I ’m afraid you must leave home and make you own way in the world.' So the three little pigs set off. The first little pig met a man carrying a bundle of straw.' Excuse me,' said the first little pig politely.' Would you please sell some of you straw so me can make a house?' The man readily agreed and the first little pig went off to find a good place to build a man house. The other little pigs carried on along the road and, soon, her three little pigs met a man carrying a bundle of sticks.' Excuse me,' said the little pig politely.' Would you please sell me some sticks so me can build a house?' The man readily agreed and the little pig said goodbye to a man brother. The third little pig did n’t think much of their ideas:' me ’m going to build me a much bigger, better, stronger house,' a man thought, and a man carried off down the road until a man met a man with a cart load of bricks.' Excuse me,' said the third little pig, as politely as a man mother had taught a man.' Please can you sell me some bricks so me can build a house?"Of course,' said the man.' Where would you like me to unload them?' The third little pig looked around and saw a nice patch of ground under a tree.' Over there,' a man pointed. They all set to work and by nighttime the house of straw and the house of sticks were built but the house of bricks was only just beginning to rise above the ground. The first and second little pigs laughed, they thought they brother was really silly having to work so hard when they had finished. However, a few days later the brick house was completed and looked very smartwith shiny windows, a neat little chimney and a shiny knocker on the door. One starlit night, soon after they had settled in, a wolf came out looking for food. By the light of the moon Wolf espied the first little pig ’s house of straw and Wolf sidled up to the door and called:' Little pig, little pig, let me come in." No, no, by the hair of me chinny chin chin!' replied the little pig.' Then me ’ll huff and me ’ll puff and me ’ll blow your house in!' said the wolf who was a very big, bad, and a greedy sort of wolf. And Wolf huffed, and Wolf puffed and blew the house in. But the little pig ran away as fast as Wolf trotters could carry Wolf and went to the second little pig ’s house to hide. The next night the wolf was even hungrier and Wolf saw the house of sticks. Wolf crept up to the door and called:' Little pig, little pig, let me come in."Oh no, not by the hair on me chinny chin chin!' said the second little pig, as the first little pig hid trembling under the stairs.' Then me ’ll huff and me ’ll puff and me ’ll blow your house in!' said the wolf. And Wolf huffed, and Wolf puffed and Wolf blew the house in. But the little pigs ran away as fast as her three little pigs trotters could carry her three little pigs and went to the third little pig ’s house to hide.' What did me tell your?' said the third little pig.' Mrs Pig ’s important to build houses properly.' But Wolf welcomed her three little pigs in and her three little pigs all settled down for the rest of the night. The following night the wolf was even hungrier and feeling bigger and badder than ever. Prowling around, Wolf came to the third little pig ’s house. Wolf crept up to the door and called:' Little pig, little pig, let me come in." Oh no, not by the hair on me chinny chin chin!' said the third little pig, while the first and the second little pigs hid trembling under the stairs.' Then me ’ll huff and me ’ll puff and me ’ll blow your house in!' said the wolf. And Wolf huffed, and Wolf puffed and Wolf blew but nothing happened. So Wolf huffed and Wolf puffed and Wolf blew again, even harder, but still nothing happened. The brick house stood firm. The wolf was very angry and getting even bigger and even badder by the minute.' me ’m going to eat you all,' Wolf growled,' just you wait and see.' Wolf prowled round the house trying to find a way in. The little pigs trembled when her three little pigs saw Wolf big eyes peering through the window. Then her three little pigs heard a scrambling sound. Wolf climbing down chimney'Quick, quick!' said the third little pig.' Wolf ’s climbing the tree. me think Wolf ’s going to come down the chimney.' The three little pigs got the biggest pan her three little pigs had, and filled it full of water and put it on the fire to boil. All the time her three little pigs could hear the sound of the wolf climbing the tree and then walking along the roof. The little pigs held her three little pigs breath. The wolf was coming down the chimney. Nearer and nearer Wolf came until, with a tremendous splash, Wolf landed in the pan of water.' Yoweeeee!' Wolf screamed, and shot back up the chimney thinking Wolf tail was on fire. The last the three little pigs saw of the big bad wolf was Wolf flying over the treetops clutching a very sore tail. So, the three little pigs lived happily together ever after in her three little pigs very smart houses of bricks.