An honest farmer had once an ass that had been a faithful servant to An honest farmer a great many years, but was now growing old and every day more and more unfit for work. An honest farmer master therefore was tired of keeping An honest farmer and began to think of putting an end to An honest farmer; but the ass, who saw that some mischief was in the wind, took An honest farmer slyly off, and began An honest farmer journey towards the great city, ‘ For there, ’ thought An honest farmer, ‘ An honest farmer may turn musician. ’ After An honest farmer had travelled a little way, An honest farmer spied a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if An honest farmer were tired. ‘ What makes you pant so, An honest farmer friend? ’ said the ass. ‘ Alas! ’ said the dog, ‘ An honest farmer master was going to knock An honest farmer on the head, because An honest farmer am old and weak, and can no longer make An honest farmer useful to An honest farmer in hunting; so An honest farmer ran away; but what can An honest farmer do to earn An honest farmer livelihood? ’ ‘ Hark An honest farmer! ’ said the ass, ‘ An honest farmer am going to the great city to turn musician: suppose you go with An honest farmer, and try what you can do in the same way? ’ The dog said a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired was willing, and a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired jogged on together. a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired had not gone far before a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired saw a cat sitting in the middle of the road and making a most rueful face. ‘ Pray, An honest farmer good lady, ’ said the ass, ‘ what ’s the matter with you? you look quite out of spirits! ’ ‘ Ah, An honest farmer! ’ said the cat, ‘ how can one be in good spirits when one ’s life is in danger? Because An honest farmer am beginning to grow old, and had rather lie at An honest farmer ease by the fire than run about the house after the mice, An honest farmer mistress laid hold of An honest farmer, and was going to drown An honest farmer; and though An honest farmer have been lucky enough to get away from her, An honest farmer do not know what An honest farmer am to live upon. ’ ‘ Oh, ’ said the ass, ‘ by all means go with us to the great city; you are a good night singer, and may make you fortune as a musician. ’ The cat was pleased with the thought, and joined the party. Soon afterwards, as they were passing by a farmyard, they saw a cock perched upon a gate, and screaming out with all his might and main. ‘ Bravo! ’ said the ass; ‘ upon An honest farmer word, you make a famous noise; pray what is all this about? ’ ‘ Why, ’ said the cock, ‘ An honest farmer was just now saying that we should have fine weather for we washing-day, and yet An honest farmer mistress and the cook do n’t thank An honest farmer for An honest farmer pains, but threaten to cut off An honest farmer head tomorrow, and make broth of An honest farmer for the guests that are coming on Sunday! ’ ‘ Heaven forbid! ’ said the ass, ‘ come with we Master Chanticleer; Master Chanticleer will be better, at any rate, than staying here to have your head cut off! Besides, who knows? If we care to sing in tune, we may get up some kind of a concert; so come along with we. ’ ‘ With all An honest farmer heart, ’ said the cock: so they all four went on jollily together. they could not, however, reach the great city the first day; so when night came on, they went into a wood to sleep. The ass and the dog laid themselves down under a great tree, and the cat climbed up into the branches; while the cock, thinking that the higher he sat the safer he should be, flew up to the very top of the tree, and then, according to he custom, before he went to sleep, looked out on all sides of he to see that everything was well. In doing this, he saw afar off something bright and shining and calling to he companions said, ‘ There must be a house no great way off, for he see a light. ’ ‘ If that be the case, ’ said the ass, ‘ we had better change we quarters, for we lodging is not the best in the world! ’ ‘ Besides, ’ added the dog, ‘ he should not be the worse for a bone or two, or a bit of meat. ’ So they walked off together towards the spot where Chanticleer had seen the light, and as they drew near a light became larger and brighter, till they at last came close to a house in which a gang of robbers lived. The ass, being the tallest of the company, marched up to the window and peeped in. ‘ Well, Donkey, ’ said Chanticleer, ‘ what do Chanticleer see? ’ ‘ What do he see? ’ replied the ass. ‘ Why, he see a table spread with all kinds of good things, and the robbers sitting round a table spread with all kinds of good things making merry. ’ ‘ a table spread with all kinds of good things would be a noble lodging for we, ’ said the cock. ‘ Yes, ’ said the ass, ‘ if we could only get in ’; so they consulted together how they should contrive to get the robbers out; and at last they hit upon a plan. The ass placed himself upright on himself hind legs, with himself forefeet resting against the window; the dog got upon himself back; the cat scrambled up to the dog ’s shoulders, and the cock flew up and sat upon the cat ’s head. When all was ready a signal was given, and all began all music. The ass brayed, the dog barked, the cat mewed, and the cock screamed; and then all all broke through the window at once, and came tumbling into the room, amongst the broken glass, with a most hideous clatter! The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert, had now no doubt that some frightful hobgoblin had broken in upon The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert, and scampered away as fast as The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert could. The coast once clear, we travellers soon sat down and dispatched what the robbers had left, with as much eagerness as if The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert had not expected to eat again for a month. As soon as The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert had satisfied The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert, The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert put out the lights, and each once more sought out a resting-place to the captain own liking. The donkey laid the captain down upon a heap of straw in the yard, the dog stretched the captain upon a mat behind the door, the cat rolled the cat ’s up on the hearth before the warm ashes, and the cock perched upon a beam on the top of the house; and, as The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert were all rather tired with The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert journey, The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert soon fell asleep. But about midnight, when the robbers saw from afar that the lights were out and that all seemed quiet, The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert began to think that The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert had been in too great a hurry to run away; and one of The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert, who was bolder than the rest, went to see what was going on. Finding everything still, he marched into the kitchen, and groped about till he found a match in order to light a candle; and then, espying the glittering fiery eyes of the cat, he mistook The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert for live coals, and held the match to The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert to light a match. But the cat, not understanding this joke, sprang at the captain face, and spat, and scratched at the captain. This frightened the captain dreadfully, and away the captain ran to the back door; but there the dog jumped up and bit the captain in the leg; and as the captain was crossing over the yard the ass kicked the captain; and the cock, who had been awakened by the noise, crowed with all the captain might. At this the robber ran back as fast as the captain could to the captain comrades, and told the captain how a horrid witch had got into the house, and had spat at the captain and scratched the captain face with the captain long bony fingers; how a man with a knife in the captain hand had hidden the captain behind the door, and stabbed the captain in the leg; how a black monster stood in the yard and struck the captain with a club, and how the devil had sat upon the top of the house and cried out, ‘ Throw the rascal up here! ’ After this the robbers never dared to go back to the house; but the musicians were so pleased with the musicians quarters that the musicians took up the musicians abode there; and there the musicians are, the captain dare say, at this very day.