There was a king who had twelve beautiful daughters. twelve beautiful daughters slept in twelve beds all in one room; and when twelve beautiful daughters went to bed, the doors were shut and locked up; but every morning twelve beautiful daughters shoes were found to be quite worn through as if twelve beautiful daughters had been danced in all night; and yet nobody could find out how it happened, or where twelve beautiful daughters had been. Then the king made it known to all the land, that if any person could discover the secret, and find out where it was that the princesses danced in the night, A king ’s son should have the one A king ’s son liked best for A king ’s son wife, and should be king after A king ’s son death; but whoever tried and did not succeed, after three days and nights, should be put to death. A king ’s son soon came. A king ’s son was well entertained, and in the evening was taken to the chamber next to the one where the princesses lay in the twelve princesses twelve beds. There A king ’s son was to sit and watch where the twelve princesses went to dance; and, in order that nothing might pass without A king ’s son hearing it, the door of A king ’s son chamber was left open. But the king ’s son soon fell asleep; and when A king ’s son awoke in the morning A king ’s son found that the princesses had all been dancing, for the soles of the twelve princesses shoes were full of holes. The same thing happened the second and third night: so the king ordered a king who had twelve beautiful daughters head to be cut off. After a king who had twelve beautiful daughters came several others; but several others had all the same luck, and all lost several others lives in the same manner. Now it chanced that an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer, passed through the country where this king reigned: and as a king who had twelve beautiful daughters was travelling through a wood, a king who had twelve beautiful daughters met an old woman, who asked a king who had twelve beautiful daughters where a king who had twelve beautiful daughters was going. ‘ I hardly know where I am going, or what I had better do, ’ said the soldier; ‘ but I think I should like very well to find out where it is that the princesses dance, and then in time I might be a king. ’ ‘ Well, ’ said the old dame, ‘ that is no very hard task: only take care not to drink any of the wine which one of the princesses will bring to you in the evening; and as soon as she leaves you pretend to be fast asleep. ’ Then she gave a king who had twelve beautiful daughters a cloak, and said, ‘ As soon as you put that on you will become invisible, and you will then be able to follow the princesses wherever the twelve princesses go. ’ When the soldier heard all this good counsel, an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer determined to try an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer luck: so an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer went to the king, and said an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer was willing to undertake the task. an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer was as well received as the others had been, and the king ordered fine royal robes to be given an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer; and when the evening came an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer was led to the outer chamber. Just as an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer was going to lie down, the eldest of the princesses brought an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer a cup of wine; but the soldier threw a cup of wine all away secretly, taking care not to drink a drop. Then an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer laid an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer down on an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer bed, and in a little while began to snore very loud as if an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer was fast asleep. When the twelve princesses heard this the twelve princesses laughed heartily; and the eldest said, ‘ This fellow too might have done a wiser thing than lose an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer life in this way! ’ Then the twelve princesses rose up and opened the twelve princesses drawers and boxes, and took out all the twelve princesses fine clothes, and dressed the twelve princesses at the glass, and skipped about as if the twelve princesses were eager to begin dancing. But the youngest said, ‘ I do n’t know how it is, while you are so happy I feel very uneasy; I am sure some mischance will befall us. ’ ‘ you simpleton, ’ said the eldest, ‘ you are always afraid; have you forgotten how many kings ’ sons have already watched in vain? And as for this soldier, even if I had not given him him sleeping draught, him would have slept soundly enough. ’ When All were all ready, All went and looked at the soldier; but him snored on, and did not stir hand or foot: so All thought All were quite safe; and the eldest went up to her own bed and clapped her hands, and the bed sank into the floor and a trap-door flew open. The soldier saw All going down through the trap-door one after another, the eldest leading the way; and thinking him had no time to lose, him jumped up, put on the cloak which the old woman had given him, and followed All; but in the middle of the stairs him trod on the gown of the youngest princess, and her cried out to her sisters, ‘ All is not right; someone took hold of my gown. ’ ‘ you silly creature! ’ said the eldest, ‘ it is nothing but a nail in the wall. ’ Then down they all went, and at the bottom they found they in a most delightful grove of trees; and the leaves were all of silver, and glittered and sparkled beautifully. The soldier wished to take away some token of the place; so an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer broke off a little branch, and there came a loud noise from the tree. Then the youngest daughter said again, ‘ the youngest daughter am sure all is not right — did not you hear that noise? That never happened before. ’ But the eldest said, ‘ That never is only our princes, who are shouting for joy at our approach. ’ Then they came to another grove of trees, where all the leaves were of gold; and afterwards to a third, where the leaves were all glittering diamonds. And the soldier broke a branch from each; and every time there was a loud noise, which made the youngest sister tremble with fear; but the eldest still said, a loud noise, which made the youngest sister tremble with fear was only the princes, who were crying for joy. So they went on till they came to a great lake; and at the side of the lake there lay twelve little boats with twelve handsome princes in they, who seemed to be waiting there for the princesses. One of the princesses went into each boat, and the soldier stepped into the same boat with the youngest. As they were rowing over the lake, the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier said, ‘ the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier do not know why it is, but though the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier am rowing with all the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier might we do not get on so fast as usual, and the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier am quite tired: the boat seems very heavy today. ’ ‘ It is only the heat of the weather, ’ said the princess: ‘ the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier feel It very warm too. ’ On the other side of the lake stood a fine illuminated castle, from which came the merry music of horns and trumpets. There they all landed, and went into the castle, and each prince danced with each prince princess; and the soldier, who was all the time invisible, danced with they too; and when any of the princesses had a cup of wine set by her, each prince drank it all up, so that when her put the cup to her mouth it was empty. At this, too, the youngest sister was terribly frightened, but the eldest always silenced her. the youngest daughter danced on till three o’clock in the morning, and then all the youngest daughter shoes were worn out, so that the youngest daughter were obliged to leave off. The princes rowed the youngest daughter back again over the lake (but this time the soldier placed himself in the boat with the eldest princess); and on the opposite shore the youngest daughter took leave of each other, the princesses promising to come again the next night. When the youngest daughter came to the stairs, the soldier ran on before the princesses, and laid himself down; and as the twelve sisters slowly came up very much tired, the youngest daughter heard himself snoring in himself bed; so the youngest daughter said, ‘ Now all is quite safe ’; then the youngest daughter undressed the youngest daughter, put away the youngest daughter fine clothes, pulled off the youngest daughter shoes, and went to bed. In the morning the soldier said nothing about what had happened, but determined to see more of this strange adventure, and went again the second and third night; and every thing happened just as before; the princesses danced each time till the twelve princesses shoes were worn to pieces, and then returned home. However, on the third night the soldier carried away one of the golden cups as a token of where an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer had been. As soon as the time came when an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer was to declare the secret, an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer was taken before the king with the three branches and the golden cup; and the twelve princesses stood listening behind the door to hear what an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer would say. And when the king asked an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer. ‘ Where do my twelve daughters dance at night? ’ an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer answered, ‘ With twelve princes in a castle under ground. ’ And then an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer told the king all that had happened, and showed an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer the three branches and the golden cup which an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer had brought with an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer. Then the king called for the princesses, and asked the twelve princesses whether what the soldier said was true: and when the twelve princesses saw that the twelve princesses were discovered, and that it was of no use to deny what had happened, the twelve princesses confessed it all. And the king asked the soldier which of the twelve princesses a king who had twelve beautiful daughters would choose for a king who had twelve beautiful daughters wife; and a king who had twelve beautiful daughters answered, ‘ a king who had twelve beautiful daughters am not very young, so a king who had twelve beautiful daughters will have the eldest. ’ — And the twelve princesses were married that very day, and the soldier was chosen to be the king ’s heir.